<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Inaugural Presidential Speeches Project - Conclusion Page</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="..\css\index_css.css" />
    </head>
    <body id="conclusion">
        <h1>Themes of Inaugural Addresses</h1>
        <!-- <div class="topnav">
            <input type="text" placeholder="Search.."/>
        </div> -->
        <ul class="nav-bar">
            <li>
                <a class="home" href="index.xhtml">HOME</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="methods" href="methods.xhtml">METHODS</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="text" href="text.xhtml">TEXT</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="results" href="results.xhtml">RESULTS</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="conclusion" href="conclusion.xhtml">CONCLUSION</a></li>
        </ul>
        <section class="method-boxes">
            <h2 class="page-header">Conclusion</h2>
            <div class="method-item">
                <h3>Research Questions</h3>
                <p>How have the issues and topics discussed in Presidential Inaugural Addresses
                    changed from the beginning of the 20th Century until now?</p>
                <p>How does this reflect American public opinion and the issues facing the country
                    over that time?</p>
                <p>How has the role of the President and expectations of them changed over time?</p>
            </div>
            <div class="method-item">
                <h3>Party Differences</h3>
                <p>Most of the themes we analyzed changed very little over time. For some of these
                    (Unity, Economy, and War), contemporary events had a direct and visible impact
                    on the topics referenced in inaugural addresses.</p>
                <p>The liberalism of the Democratic party has led to heavy use of positive unity.
                    Social liberalism is cooperation between business, government, and laborers
                    around the country, which the party achieves by emphasizing a sense of
                    togetherness. This carries over to references of democracy and the belief in
                    equal opportunity for all.</p>
                <p>Among Republicans, mentions of diplomacy, regulation, and tax were much more
                    prevalent. This is likely the result of fiscally conserve ideals. This is the
                    idea of limiting the government’s interaction with the economy and businesses.
                    Many republican presidents have put the economy at the forefront of their
                    campaigns by emphasizing tax cuts, deregulation, and increased trade with the
                    belief that this will lead to overall economic growth.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="method-item">
                <h3>Changes Over Time</h3>
                <p>The substance and purpose of presidential inaugural addresses has shifted since
                    the dawn of the twentieth century. Presidents in the early 1900’s focused on
                    issues and policy to outline the goals of their presidencies. More recently,
                    inaugural addresses have become an opportunity to unify the country while
                    briefly touching on societal and political issues.</p>
            </div>
            <div class="method-item">
                <h3>Conclusions</h3>
                <p>After completing the research and analysis of these inaugural addresses, it is
                    clear that there are fewer differences between the inaugural addresses of each parties than
                    anticipated. However, there are more significant changes over time, as inaugural
                    addresses are heavily influenced by the era in which they are given. Although
                    major divisions exist between the two political parties, our research shows that
                    the two share many similarities in their inaugural addresses and the ways they
                    have shifted over time.</p>
            </div>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
