<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Inaugural Presidential Speeches Project - Methods Page</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="..\css\index_css.css" />
    </head>
    <body id="methods">
        <h1>Themes of Inaugural Addresses</h1>
        <!-- <div class="topnav">
            <input type="text" placeholder="Search.."/>
        </div> -->
        <ul class="nav-bar">
            <li>
                <a class="home" href="index.xhtml">HOME</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="methods" href="methods.xhtml">METHODS</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="text" href="text.xhtml">TEXT</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="results" href="results.xhtml">RESULTS</a></li>
            <li>
                <a class="conclusion" href="conclusion.xhtml">CONCLUSION</a></li>
        </ul>
        <div class="container">
            <section class="method-boxes">
                <h2 class="page-header">Methods</h2>
                <div class="method-item">
                    <h3>Process</h3>
                    <p>Textual versions of each presidential inaugural address from 1901 to 2021
                        were found through <em>Project Gutenberg</em>. Using XML, we tagged for fourteen
                        common themes found within inaugural addresses from this period. The purpose
                        of this was to find various similarities and changes over time in the themes
                        referenced in inaugural addresses and how this represents the political
                        climate of each period. Each address was analyzed by at least two team
                        members to ensure validity and consistency. </p>
                </div>
                <div class="method-item">
                    <h3>Tone</h3>
                    <p>Some themes include a tone which is either positive or negative. In nearly
                        all addresses, presidents will portray future success, so negative tone
                        includes references to past or current failings in that area. For themes
                        like war and immigration, tone refers to more or less of that thing (e.g.,
                        advocating for peace or reduced immigration would be negative).</p>
                </div>
                <div class="method-item">
                    <h3>Themes</h3>
                    <ul class="themes">
                        <li><b>WAR:</b> Any mention of war, defense, or international security. The
                            positive tone for presidents encouraging war, and the negative tone for
                            advocating for peace.</li>
                        <li><b>ECONOMY:</b> Any reference to America’s economic performance as a whole or
                            specific aspects of the economy.</li>
                        <li><b>JOBS:</b> Any reference to micro-economics and changes in labor
                            participation or unemployment.</li>
                        <li><b>RELIGION:</b> Any references of religion, god, or prayer. Does not include
                            closing statements like, “god bless you,” which we deemed to be
                            traditional rather than religious.</li>
                        <li><b>DEMOCRACY:</b> Any reference of the spread of democracy as a political
                            ideology abroad or the defense of those beliefs at home.</li>
                        <li><b>IMMIGRATION:</b> Any references to immigration, immigrants, or border
                            security.</li>
                        <li><b>RACE:</b> Any current or historical mentions of racial equality, tensions,
                            or relations.</li>
                        <li><b>UNITY:</b> Any references of, or calls to, collectiveness or patriotism.
                            Only includes domestic instances of unity.</li>
                        <li><b>EDUCATION:</b> Any references of the state of the education system, includes
                            primary through university-level education.</li>
                        <li><b>PREDECESSOR:</b> Includes any mentions of the life or political work of
                            recent former presidents.</li>
                        <li><b>CRIME:</b> Any mention of crime, prison reform, or the criminal justice
                            system.</li>
                        <li><b>CONGRESS:</b> Any mention of either house of congress, including past
                            accomplishments and calls to action.</li>
                        <li><b>TAXES:</b> Any mention of taxes, tax reform, or the impact of taxes on
                            citizens of varying income levels.</li>
                        <li><b>DIPLOMACY:</b> Any mentions of international diplomatic discussion,
                            including negotiations with foreign government or multinational
                            organizations like the United Nations.</li>
                        <li><b>TRADE:</b> Any mention of international import or export of goods, including discussion of tariffs.</li>
                        <li><b>REGULATION:</b> Any reference to the regulation of government or business practices.</li>
                        <li><b>INFRASTRUCTURE:</b> Any reference of industrial, agricultural, technological, or any other development. Includes digital as well as physical infrastructure.</li>
                        <li><b>PUBLIC HEALTH:</b> Any mention of healthcare, disease, air or water quality, or anything else that discusses the overall health of the American population.</li>
                    </ul>
                </div>
            </section>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
