<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Joe Biden Inaugural Address Wednesday, January 20, 2021</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            
            <p>Chief Justice Roberts, Vice President Harris, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer,
               Leader McConnell, Vice President Pence, distinguished guests, and my fellow
               Americans.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">This is America’s day.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">This is democracy’s day.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">A day of history and hope.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Of renewal and resolve.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Through a crucible for the ages America has been tested anew and America has
                  risen to the challenge.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">Today, we celebrate the triumph not of a candidate, but of a cause, the cause of
                  democracy.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">The will of the people has been heard and the will of the people has been
                  heeded.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">We have learned again that democracy is precious.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">Democracy is fragile.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">And at this hour, my friends, democracy has
                  prevailed.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">So now, on this hallowed ground where just days ago violence
                  sought to shake this Capitol’s very foundation, we come together as one nation,
                  under God, indivisible, to carry out the peaceful transfer of power as we have for
                  more than two centuries.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We look ahead in our uniquely American way – restless, bold, optimistic – and set
                  our sights on the nation we know we can be and we must be.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="pred-P">I thank my predecessors of both parties for their presence
                  here.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I thank them from the bottom of my heart.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">You know the resilience of our Constitution and the strength of
                  our nation.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="pred-P">As does President Carter, who I spoke to last night but who cannot be with us
                  today, but whom we salute for his lifetime of service.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I have just taken the sacred oath each of these patriots took — an oath first
               sworn by George Washington.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">But the American story depends not on any one of us, not on some of us, but on
                  all of us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>On “We the People” who seek a more perfect Union.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">This is a great nation and we are a good
                  people.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Over the centuries through storm and strife, in peace and in war, we have come so
                  far. But we still have far to go.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We will press forward with speed and urgency, for we have much to do in this
               winter of peril and possibility.</p>
            
            
            <p>Much to repair.</p>
            
            
            <p>Much to restore.</p>
            
            
            <p>Much to heal.</p>
            
            
            <p>Much to build.</p>
            
            
            <p>And much to gain.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Few periods in our nation’s history have been more challenging or difficult than
                  the one we’re in now.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">A once-in-a-century virus silently stalks the country.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">It’s taken as many lives in one year as America lost in all of World War
                  II.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="jobs-N">Millions of jobs have been lost.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">Hundreds of thousands of businesses closed.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="race">A cry for racial justice some 400 years in the making moves us. The dream of
                  justice for all will be deferred no longer.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>A cry for survival comes from the planet itself. A cry that can’t be any more
               desperate or any more clear.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">And now, a rise in political extremism, white supremacy, domestic terrorism that
                  we must confront and we will defeat.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">To overcome these challenges – to restore the soul and to secure the future of
                  America – requires more than words.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">It requires that most elusive of things in a democracy:</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Unity.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Unity.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>In another January in Washington, on New Year’s Day 1863, Abraham Lincoln signed
               the Emancipation Proclamation.</p>
            
            
            <p>When he put pen to paper, the President said, “If my name ever goes down into
               history it will be for this act and my whole soul is in it.”</p>
            
            
            <p>My whole soul is in it.</p>
            
            
            <p>Today, on this January day, my whole soul is in this:</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Bringing America together.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Uniting our people.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And uniting our nation.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">I ask every American to join me in this cause.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Uniting to fight the common foes we face:</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Anger, resentment, hatred.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="criminal_justice-N">Extremism, lawlessness, violence.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">Disease,</span> 
               <span class="jobs-N">joblessness, hopelessness.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">With unity we can do great things. Important things.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We can right wrongs.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="jobs-P">We can put people to work in good jobs.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="education-P">We can teach our children in safe
                  schools.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-P">We can overcome this deadly
                  virus.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-P">We can reward work, rebuild the middle class, and make health
                  care secure for all.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="race">We can deliver racial justice.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We can make America, once again, the leading force for good in the
               world.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">I know speaking of unity can sound to some like a foolish fantasy.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">I know the forces that divide us are deep and they are real.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>But I also know they are not new.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Our history has been a constant struggle between the American ideal that we are
                  all created equal and the harsh, ugly reality that racism, nativism, fear, and
                  demonization have long torn us apart.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>The battle is perennial.</p>
            
            
            <p>Victory is never assured.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Through the Civil War, the Great Depression, World War, 9/11,
                  through struggle, sacrifice, and setbacks, our “better angels” have always
                  prevailed.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">In each of these moments, enough of us came together to carry all of us
                  forward.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And, we can do so now.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>History, faith, and reason show the way, the way of unity.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can see each other not as adversaries but as neighbors.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can treat each other with dignity and respect.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can join forces, stop the shouting, and lower the temperature.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">For without unity, there is no peace, only bitterness and fury.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>No progress, only exhausting outrage.</p>
            
            
            <p>No nation, only a state of chaos.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">This is our historic moment of crisis and challenge, and unity is
                  the path forward.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And, we must meet this moment as the United States of America.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">If we do that, I guarantee you, we will not fail.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We have never, ever, ever failed in America when we have acted
                  together.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>And so today, at this time and in this place, let us start afresh.</p>
            
            
            <p>All of us.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Let us listen to one another.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Hear one another. See one another.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Show respect to one another.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Politics need not be a raging fire destroying everything in its path.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">Every disagreement doesn’t have to be a cause for total war.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">And, we must reject a culture in which facts themselves are manipulated and even
                  manufactured.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, we have to be different than this.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">America has to be better than this.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And, I believe America is better than this.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Just look around.</p>
            
            
            <p>Here we stand, in the shadow of a Capitol dome that was completed amid the Civil
               War, when the Union itself hung in the balance.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Yet we endured and we prevailed.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="race">Here we stand looking out to the great Mall where Dr. King spoke of his
                  dream.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Here we stand, where 108 years ago at another inaugural, thousands of protestors
               tried to block brave women from marching for the right to vote.</p>
            
            
            <p>Today, we mark the swearing-in of the first woman in American history elected to
               national office – Vice President Kamala Harris.</p>
            
            
            <p>Don’t tell me things can’t change.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">Here we stand across the Potomac from Arlington National Cemetery, where heroes
                  who gave the last full measure of devotion rest in eternal peace.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">And here we stand, just days after a riotous mob thought they could use violence
                  to silence the will of the people</span>, <span class="democracy">to stop the work of our democracy, and to drive us
                  from this sacred ground.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>That did not happen.</p>
            
            
            <p>It will never happen.</p>
            
            
            <p>Not today.</p>
            
            
            <p>Not tomorrow.</p>
            
            
            <p>Not ever.</p>
            
            
            <p>To all those who supported our campaign I am humbled by the faith you have placed
               in us.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">To all those who did not support us, let me say this: Hear me out as we move
                  forward. Take a measure of me and my heart.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>And if you still disagree, so be it.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">That’s democracy. That’s America. The right to dissent peaceably,
                  within the guardrails of our Republic, is perhaps our nation’s greatest
                  strength.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Yet hear me clearly: Disagreement must not lead to disunion.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And I pledge this to you: I will be a President for all Americans.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">I will fight as hard for those who did not support me as for those who
                  did.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">Many centuries ago, Saint Augustine, a saint of my church, wrote that a people
                  was a multitude defined by the common objects of their love.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>What are the common objects we love that define us as Americans?</p>
            
            
            <p>I think I know.</p>
            
            
            <p>Opportunity.</p>
            
            
            <p>Security.</p>
            
            
            <p>Liberty.</p>
            
            
            <p>Dignity.</p>
            
            
            <p>Respect.</p>
            
            
            <p>Honor.</p>
            
            
            <p>And, yes, the truth.</p>
            
            
            <p>Recent weeks and months have taught us a painful lesson.</p>
            
            
            <p>There is truth and there are lies.</p>
            
            
            <p>Lies told for power and for profit.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And each of us has a duty and responsibility, as citizens, as Americans, and
                  especially as leaders – leaders who have pledged to honor our Constitution and protect
                  our nation — to defend the truth and to defeat the lies.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I understand that many Americans view the future with some fear and
               trepidation.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="jobs-N">I understand they worry about their jobs, about taking care of their families,
                  about what comes next.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I get it.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">But the answer is not to turn inward, to retreat into competing factions,
                  distrusting those who don’t look like you do, or worship the way you do, or don’t
                  get
                  their news from the same sources you do.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">We must end this uncivil war that pits red against blue, rural versus urban,
                  conservative versus liberal.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can do this if we open our souls instead of hardening our
                  hearts.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>If we show a little tolerance and humility.</p>
            
            
            <p>If we’re willing to stand in the other person’s shoes just for a moment. Because
               here is the thing about life: There is no accounting for what fate will deal
               you.</p>
            
            
            <p>There are some days when we need a hand.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">There are other days when we’re called on to lend
                  one.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">That is how we must be with one another.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And, if we are this way, our country will be stronger, more prosperous, more
                  ready for the future.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, in the work ahead of us, we will need each
                  other.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">We will need all our strength to persevere through this dark winter.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">We are entering what may well be the toughest and deadliest period of the
                  virus.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">We must set aside the politics and finally face this
                  pandemic as one nation</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">I promise you this: as the Bible says weeping may endure for a night but joy
                  cometh in the morning.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We will get through this, together.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>The world is watching today.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">So here is my message to those beyond our borders: America has been tested and we
                  have come out stronger for it.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We will repair our alliances and engage with the world once again.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Not to meet yesterday’s challenges, but today’s and tomorrow’s.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We will lead not merely by the example of our power but by the power of our
                  example.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We will be a strong and trusted partner for peace, progress, and
                  security.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We have been through so much in this nation.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">And, in my first act as President, I would like to ask you to join me in a moment
                  of silent prayer to remember all those we lost this past year to the
                  pandemic.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">To those 400,000 fellow Americans – mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, sons
                  and daughters, friends, neighbors, and co-workers.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We will honor them by becoming the people and nation we know we can and should
               be.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">Let us say a silent prayer for those who lost their lives, for those they left
                  behind, and for our country.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Amen.</p>
            
            
            <p>This is a time of testing.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">We face an attack on democracy and on truth.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="public_health-N">A raging virus.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">Growing inequity.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="race">The sting of systemic racism.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>A climate in crisis.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">America’s role in the world.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Any one of these would be enough to challenge us in profound ways.</p>
            
            
            <p>But the fact is we face them all at once, presenting this nation with the gravest
               of responsibilities.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Now we must step up.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">All of us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>It is a time for boldness, for there is so much to do.</p>
            
            
            <p>And, this is certain.</p>
            
            
            <p>We will be judged, you and I, for how we resolve the cascading crises of our
               era.</p>
            
            
            <p>Will we rise to the occasion?</p>
            
            
            <p>Will we master this rare and difficult hour?</p>
            
            
            <p>Will we meet our obligations and pass along a new and better world for our
               children?</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">I believe we must and I believe we will.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And when we do, we will write the next chapter in the American story.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>It’s a story that might sound something like a song that means a lot to
               me.</p>
            
            
            <p>It’s called “American Anthem” and there is one verse stands out for
               me:</p>
            
            
            <p>“The work and prayers of centuries have brought us to this day What shall be our
               legacy? What will our children say?… Let me know in my heart When my days are through
               America America I gave my best to you.”</p>
            
            
            <p>Let us add our own work and prayers to the unfolding story of our
               nation.</p>
            
            
            <p>If we do this then when our days are through our children and our children’s
               children will say of us they gave their best.</p>
            
            
            <p>They did their duty.</p>
            
            
            <p>They healed a broken land. My fellow Americans, I close today where I began, with
               a sacred oath.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">Before God and all of you I give you my word.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I will always level with you.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">I will defend the Constitution.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">I will defend our democracy.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>I will defend America.</p>
            
            
            <p>I will give my all in your service thinking not of power, but of
               possibilities.</p>
            
            
            <p>Not of personal interest, but of the public good.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And together, we shall write an American story of hope, not
                  fear.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Of unity, not division.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Of light, not darkness.</p>
            
            
            <p>An American story of decency and dignity.</p>
            
            
            <p>Of love and of healing.</p>
            
            
            <p>Of greatness and of goodness.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">May this be the story that guides us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">The story that inspires us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">The story that tells ages yet to come that we answered the call of
                  history.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">We met the moment.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">That democracy and hope, truth and justice, did not die on our watch but
                  thrived.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">That our America secured liberty at home and stood once again as a beacon to the
                  world.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>That is what we owe our forebearers, one another, and generations to
               follow.</p>
            
            
            <p>So, with purpose and resolve we turn to the tasks of our time.</p>
            
            
            <p>Sustained by faith.</p>
            
            
            <p>Driven by conviction.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And, devoted to one another and to this country we love with all
                  our hearts.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>May God bless America and may God protect our troops.</p>
            
            
            <p>Thank you, America.</p>
            </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
        </div>
        <div id="buttons">
               <ul class="textButtons">
                     <li><a href="trump_1.xhtml">Donald Trump</a></li>
               </ul>
        </div>
      </body>
</html>