<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>George W. Bush Second Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20,
         2005</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">George W. Bush Second Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20,
               2005</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>Vice President Cheney, Mr. Chief Justice, President Carter, President Bush,
                  President Clinton, reverend clergy, distinguished guests, fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">On this day, prescribed by law and marked by ceremony, we celebrate
                     the durable wisdom of our Constitution, and recall the deep commitments that unite
                     our country. I am grateful for the honor of this hour, mindful of the consequential
                     times in which we live, and determined to fulfill the oath that I have sworn and you
                     have witnessed.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>At this second gathering, our duties are defined not by the words I use, but by
                  the history we have seen together.<span class="war-P">For a half century, America defended
                     our own freedom by standing watch on distant borders.</span> <span class="war-N">After the shipwreck of
                     communism came years of relative quiet, years of repose, years of sabbatical—and
                     then there came a day of fire.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We have seen our vulnerability—and we have seen its deepest
                     source. For as long as whole regions of the world simmer in resentment and
                     tyranny—prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse murder—violence will gather,
                     and multiply in destructive power, and cross the most defended borders, and raise
                     a
                     mortal threat.</span> <span class="unity-P">There is only one force of history that can break the reign
                     of hatred and resentment, and expose the pretensions of tyrants, and reward the hopes
                     of
                     the decent and tolerant, and that is the force of human freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We are led, by events and common sense, to one conclusion: The
                     survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in
                     other lands. The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all
                     the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now
                     one.</span> From the day of our Founding, we have proclaimed that every man and
                  woman on this earth has rights, and dignity, and matchless value, because they bear
                  the
                  image of the Maker of Heaven and earth. Across the generations we have proclaimed
                  the
                  imperative of self-government, because no one is fit to be a master, and no one deserves
                  to be a slave. Advancing these ideals is the mission that created our Nation. It is
                  the
                  honorable achievement of our fathers. Now it is the urgent requirement of our nation's
                  security, and the calling of our time.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">So it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the
                     growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with
                     the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">This is not primarily the task of arms, though we will defend
                     ourselves and our friends by force of arms when necessary.</span> Freedom, by its
                  nature, must be chosen, and defended by citizens, and sustained by the rule of law
                  and
                  the protection of minorities. And when the soul of a nation finally speaks, the
                  institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different from our
                  own.
                  <span class="diplomacy">America will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling. Our
                     goal instead is to help others find their own voice, attain their own freedom, and
                     make their own way.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The great objective of ending tyranny is the concentrated work of generations.
                  The difficulty of the task is no excuse for avoiding it. America's influence is not
                  unlimited, but fortunately for the oppressed, America's influence is considerable,
                  and
                  we will use it confidently in freedom's cause.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">My most solemn duty is to protect this nation and its people
                     against further attacks and emerging threats. Some have unwisely chosen to test
                     America's resolve, and have found it firm.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We will persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and every
                     nation: The moral choice between oppression, which is always wrong, and freedom,
                     which is eternally right.</span> America will not pretend that jailed
                  dissidents prefer their chains, or that women welcome humiliation and servitude, or
                  that
                  any human being aspires to live at the mercy of bullies.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We will encourage reform in other governments by making clear that
                     success in our relations will require the decent treatment of their own people.
                     America's belief in human dignity will guide our policies, yet rights must be more
                     than the grudging concessions of dictators; they are secured by free dissent and the
                     participation of the governed. In the long run, there is no justice without freedom,
                     and there can be no human rights without human liberty.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Some, I know, have questioned the global appeal of liberty—though this time in
                  history, four decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen, is an
                  odd
                  time for doubt. <span class="democracy">Americans, of all people, should never be surprised by the
                     power of our ideals. Eventually, the call of freedom comes to every mind and every
                     soul. We do not accept the existence of permanent tyranny because we do not accept
                     the possibility of permanent slavery. Liberty will come to those who love
                     it.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Today, America speaks anew to the peoples of the
                     world:</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know: the United States
                     will not ignore your oppression, or excuse your oppressors. When you stand for your
                     liberty, we will stand with you.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Democratic reformers facing repression, prison, or exile can know:
                     America sees you for who you are: the future leaders of your free
                     country.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">The rulers of outlaw regimes can know that we still believe as Abraham
                     Lincoln did: "Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and,
                     under the rule of a just God, cannot long retain it."</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The leaders of governments with long habits of control need to know:
                  To serve your people you must learn to trust them. <span class="unity-P">Start on this journey of progress
                     and justice, and America will walk at your side.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">And all the allies of the United States can know: we honor your
                     friendship, we rely on your counsel, and we depend on your help.</span><span class="unity-N"> Division among free
                     nations is a primary goal of freedom's enemies.</span>
                  <span class="democracy">The concerted effort of free nations to promote democracy is a prelude to our
                     enemies' defeat.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Today, I also speak anew to my fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">From all of you, I have asked patience in the hard task of
                     securing America, which you have granted in good measure. Our country has accepted
                     obligations that are difficult to fulfill, and would be dishonorable to abandon. Yet
                     because we have acted in the great liberating tradition of this nation, tens of
                     millions have achieved their freedom. And as hope kindles hope, millions more will
                     find it. By our efforts, we have lit a fire as well—a fire in the minds of men. It
                     warms those who feel its power, it burns those who fight its progress, and one day
                     this untamed fire of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our
                     world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this cause—in
                     the quiet work of intelligence and diplomacy...the idealistic work of helping raise
                     up free governments...the dangerous and necessary work of fighting our enemies. Some
                     have shown their devotion to our country in deaths that honored their whole
                     lives—and we will always honor their names and their sacrifice.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>All Americans have witnessed this idealism, and some for the first time. I ask
                  our youngest citizens to believe the evidence of your eyes. <span class="war-P">You have seen
                     duty and allegiance in the determined faces of our soldiers.</span>
                  <span class="unity-P">You have seen that life is fragile, and evil is real, and courage
                     triumphs. Make the choice to serve in a cause larger than your wants, larger than
                     yourself—and in your days you will add not just to the wealth of our country, but
                     to
                     its character.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">America has need of idealism and courage, because we have
                     essential work at home—the unfinished work of American freedom.</span> In a world
                  moving toward liberty, we are determined to show the meaning and promise of
                  liberty.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, citizens find the dignity and <span class="economy-N">security of economic independence</span>, instead of laboring on the edge of
                  subsistence. <span class="regulation">This is the broader definition of liberty that motivated the
                     Homestead Act, the Social Security Act, and the G.I. Bill of Rights</span>.
                  And now we will extend this vision by reforming great institutions to serve the needs
                  of
                  our time. To give every American a stake in the promise and future of our country,
                  <span class="education-N">we will bring the highest standards to our schools</span>,
                  and build an ownership society. <span class="economy-N">We will widen the ownership of homes
                     and businesses, retirement savings and health insurance—preparing our people for the
                     challenges of life in a free society</span>. By making every citizen an agent of
                  his or her own destiny, we will give our fellow Americans greater freedom from want
                  and
                  fear, and make our society more prosperous and just and equal.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, the public interest depends on private
                  character—on integrity, and tolerance toward others, and the rule of conscience in
                  our
                  own lives. Self-government relies, in the end, on the governing of the self.
                  <span class="religion">That edifice of character is built in families, supported by communities
                     with standards, and sustained in our national life by the truths of Sinai, the
                     Sermon on the Mount, the words of the Koran, and the varied faiths of our
                     people</span>. Americans move forward in every generation by reaffirming all
                  that is good and true that came before—ideals of justice and conduct that are the
                  same
                  yesterday, today, and forever.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service, and
                  mercy, and a heart for the weak. Liberty for all does not mean independence from one
                  another. Our nation relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and surround
                  the
                  lost with love. <span class="unity-P">Americans, at our best, value the life we see in one
                     another, and must always remember that even the unwanted have worth</span>.
                  <span class="race">And our country must abandon all the habits of racism, because we cannot carry
                     the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same
                     time</span>.</p>
               
               
               <p>From the perspective of a single day, including this day of dedication, the
                  issues and questions before our country are many. From the viewpoint of centuries,
                  the
                  questions that come to us are narrowed and few. Did our generation advance the cause
                  of
                  freedom? And did our character bring credit to that cause?</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">These questions that judge us also unite us, because Americans of
                     every party and background, Americans by choice and by birth, are bound to one
                     another in the cause of freedom. We have known divisions, which must be healed to
                     move forward in great purposes—and I will strive in good faith to heal them. Yet
                     those divisions do not define America. We felt the unity and fellowship of our
                     nation when freedom came under attack, and our response came like a single hand over
                     a single heart. And we can feel that same unity and pride whenever America acts for
                     good, and the victims of disaster are given hope, and the unjust encounter justice,
                     and the captives are set free.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We go forward with complete confidence in the eventual triumph of freedom. Not
                  because history runs on the wheels of inevitability; it is human choices that move
                  events. Not because we consider ourselves a chosen nation; God moves and chooses as
                  He
                  wills. We have confidence because freedom is the permanent hope of mankind, the hunger
                  in dark places, the longing of the soul. <span class="democracy">When our Founders declared a new
                     order of the ages</span>; <span class="war-P">when soldiers died in wave upon wave
                     for a union based on liberty</span>; <span class="unity-P">when citizens marched in
                     peaceful outrage under the banner "Freedom Now"—they were acting on an ancient hope
                     that is meant to be fulfilled</span>. History has an ebb and flow of justice, but
                  history also has a visible direction, set by liberty and the Author of
                  Liberty.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">When the Declaration of Independence was first read in public and the
                     Liberty Bell was sounded in celebration, a witness said, "It rang as if it meant
                     something." In our time it means something still. America, in this young century,
                     proclaims liberty throughout all the world, and to all the inhabitants thereof.
                     Renewed in our strength—tested, but not weary—we are ready for the greatest
                     achievements in the history of freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>May God bless you, and may He watch over the United States of
                  America.</p>
               </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="clinton_1.xhtml">Bill Clinton</a></li>
            <li><a href="obama_1.xhtml">Barack Obama</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>