<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>George W. Bush (2001-2009)</h2>
      
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Saturday, January 20,
               2001</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p><span class="pred-P">President BUSH. Thank you all. Chief Justice Rehnquist, President
                     Carter, President Bush, President Clinton, distinguished guests, and my fellow
                     citizens: This peaceful transfer of authority is rare in history, yet common in our
                     country. With a simple oath, we affirm old traditions and make new beginnings. As
                     I
                     begin, I thank President Clinton for his service to our Nation.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>And I thank Vice President Gore for a contest conducted with spirit and ended
                  with grace.</p>
               
               
               <p>I am honored and humbled to stand here, where so many of America’s leaders have
                  come before me and so many will follow.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We have a place, all of us, in a long story; a story we continue,
                     but whose end we will not see. It is the story of a new world that became a friend
                     and liberator of the old, the story of a slave-holding society that became a servant
                     of freedom, the story of a power that went into the world to protect but not
                     possess, to defend but not to conquer. It is the American story; a story of flawed
                     and fallible people, united across the generations by grand and enduring
                     ideals.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The grandest of these ideals is an unfolding American promise:
                     that everyone belongs, that everyone deserves a chance, that no insignificant person
                     was ever born.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Americans are called to enact this promise in our lives and in our laws. And
                  though our Nation has sometimes halted, and sometimes delayed, we must follow no other
                  course.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Through much of the last century, America’s faith in freedom and
                     democracy was a rock in a raging sea. Now it is a seed upon the wind, taking root
                     in
                     many nations.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Our democratic faith is more than the creed of our country, it is the
                     inborn hope of our humanity; an ideal we carry but do not own, a trust we bear and
                     pass along. And even after nearly 225 years, we have a long way yet to
                     travel.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>While many of our citizens prosper, others doubt the promise—even the justice—of
                  our own country. <span class="education-N">The ambitions of some Americans are limited by
                     failing schools,</span><span class="unity-N"> and hidden prejudice, and the
                     circumstances of their birth. And sometimes our differences run so deep, it seems
                     we
                     share a continent, but not a country.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We do not accept this, and we will not allow it. Our unity, our
                     union, is the serious work of leaders and citizens in every generation. And this is
                     my solemn pledge: I will work to build a single nation of justice and
                     opportunity.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">I know this is within our reach, because we are guided by a power
                     larger than ourselves who creates us equal in His image.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And we are confident in principles that unite and lead us
                     onward.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">America has never been united by blood or birth or soil. We are
                     bound by ideals that move us beyond our backgrounds, lift us above our interests,
                     and teach us what it means to be citizens. Every child must be taught these
                     principles. Every citizen must uphold them. And every immigrant, by embracing these
                     ideals, makes our country more, not less, American.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Today we affirm a new commitment to live out our Nation’s promise
                     through civility, courage, compassion, and character.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">America, at its best, matches a commitment to principle with a
                     concern for civility. A civil society demands from each of us good will and respect,
                     fair dealing and forgiveness.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">Some seem to believe that our politics can afford to be petty
                     because, in a time of peace, the stakes of our debates appear small. But the stakes,
                     for America, are never small. If our country does not lead the cause of freedom, it
                     will not be led. If we do not turn the hearts of children toward knowledge and
                     character, we will lose their gifts and undermine their idealism. If we permit our
                     economy to drift and decline, the vulnerable will suffer most.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We must live up to the calling we share. Civility is not a tactic
                     or a sentiment. It is the determined choice of trust over cynicism, of community
                     over chaos. And this commitment, if we keep it, is a way to shared
                     accomplishment.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>America, at its best, is also courageous.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Our national courage has been clear in times of depression and
                     war, when defeating common dangers defined our common good. Now we must choose if
                     the example of our fathers and mothers will inspire us or condemn us. We must show
                     courage in a time of blessing by confronting problems instead of passing them onto
                     future generations.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="education-N">Together we will reclaim America’s schools, before ignorance
                     and apathy claim more young lives.</span><span class="regulation">We will reform Social
                     Security and Medicare, sparing our children from struggles we have the power to
                     prevent.</span><span class="tax">And we will reduce taxes,</span><span class="economy-N">to recover the momentum of our economy and reward the efforts and enterprise of
                     working Americans.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">We will build our defenses beyond challenge, lest weakness invite
                     challenge.</span></p>
               
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">We will confront weapons of mass destruction, so that a new century
                     is spared new horrors.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">The enemies of liberty and our country should make no mistake,
                     America remains engaged in the world, by history and by choice, shaping a balance
                     of
                     power that favors freedom. We will defend our allies and our interests. We will show
                     purpose without arrogance. We will meet aggression and bad faith with resolve and
                     strength. And to all nations, we will speak for the values that gave our Nation
                     birth.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>America, at its best, is compassionate.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">In the quiet of American conscience, we know that deep,
                     persistent poverty is unworthy of our Nation’s promise.</span> And whatever our
                  views of its cause, we can agree that children at risk are not at fault. Abandonment
                  and
                  abuse are not acts of God; they are failures of love.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="criminal_justice-N">And the proliferation of prisons, however necessary,
                     is no substitute for hope and order in our souls.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">Where there is suffering, there is duty. Americans in need are
                     not strangers, they are citizens; not problems, but priorities. And all of us are
                     diminished when any are hopeless.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="public_health-P">Government has great responsibilities, for public safety
                     and public health,</span><span class="criminal_justice-P">for civil
                     rights</span><span class="education-P">and common schools.</span> Yet
                  compassion is the work of a nation, not just a government. And some needs and hurts
                  are
                  so deep, they will only respond to a mentor’s touch or a pastor’s prayer.
                  <span class="religion">Church and charity, synagogue and mosque lend our communities their
                     humanity, and they will have an honored place in our plans and in our
                     laws.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">Many in our country do not know the pain of poverty. But we can
                     listen to those who do. And I can pledge our Nation to a
                     goal.</span><span class="religion">When we see that wounded traveler on the road to Jericho,
                     we will not pass to the other side.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>America, at its best, is a place where personal responsibility is valued and
                  expected.</p>
               
               
               <p>Encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats; it is a call to
                  conscience. And though it requires sacrifice, it brings a deeper fulfillment. We find
                  the fullness of life, not only in options, but in commitments. <span class="unity-P">And we
                     find that children and community are the commitments that set us
                     free.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Our public interest depends on private character; on civic duty
                     and family bonds and basic fairness; on uncounted, unhonored acts of decency which
                     give direction to our freedom. Sometimes in life we are called to do great things.
                     But as a saint of our times has said, every day we are called to do small things
                     with great love.</span><span class="democracy">The most important tasks of a democracy are done
                     by everyone.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I will live and lead by these principles: to advance my convictions with
                  civility; to pursue the public interest with courage; to speak for greater justice
                  and
                  compassion; to call for responsibility, and try to live it as well. In all these ways,
                  I
                  will bring the values of our history to the care of our times.</p>
               
               
               <p>What you do is as important as anything government does. I ask you to seek a com-
                  mon good beyond your comfort; <span class="regulation">to defend needed reforms against easy
                     attacks;</span> to serve your Nation, beginning with your neighbor. I ask you
                  to be citizens—citizens, not spectators; citizens, not subjects; responsible citizens
                  building communities of serv- ice and a nation of character.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Americans are generous and strong and decent, not because we
                     believe in ourselves, but because we hold beliefs beyond ourselves. When this spirit
                     of citizenship is missing, no government program can replace it. When this spirit
                     is
                     present, no wrong can stand against it.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>After the Declaration of Independence was signed, Virginia statesman John Page
                  wrote to Thomas Jefferson:</p>
               
               
               <p>We know the race is not to the swift nor the Battle to the Strong. Do you not
                  think an Angel rides in the Whirlwind and directs this Storm?</p>
               
               
               <p>Much time has passed since Jefferson arrived for his inauguration. The years and
                  changes accumulate, but the themes of this day he would know: our Nation’s grand story
                  of courage and its simple dream of dignity. We are not the story’s author, who fills
                  time and eternity with His purpose. Yet His purpose is achieved in our duty; and our
                  duty is fulfilled in service to one another.</p>
               
               
               <p>Never tiring, never yielding, never finishing, we renew that purpose today: to
                  make our country more just and generous; to affirm the dignity of our lives and every
                  life. This work continues.</p>
               
               
               <p>This story goes on. And an angel still rides in the whirlwind and directs this
                  storm.</p>
               
               
               <p>God bless you all, and God bless America.</p>
               </div>
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Thursday, January 20,
               2005</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>Vice President Cheney, Mr. Chief Justice, President Carter, President Bush,
                  President Clinton, reverend clergy, distinguished guests, fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">On this day, prescribed by law and marked by ceremony, we celebrate
                  the durable wisdom of our Constitution, and recall the deep commitments that unite
                  our country. I am grateful for the honor of this hour, mindful of the consequential
                  times in which we live, and determined to fulfill the oath that I have sworn and you
                  have witnessed.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>At this second gathering, our duties are defined not by the words I use, but by
                  the history we have seen together.<span class="war-P">For a half century, America defended
                     our own freedom by standing watch on distant borders.</span> <span class="war-N">After the shipwreck of
                        communism came years of relative quiet, years of repose, years of sabbatical—and
                        then there came a day of fire.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We have seen our vulnerability—and we have seen its deepest
                  source. For as long as whole regions of the world simmer in resentment and
                  tyranny—prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse murder—violence will gather,
                  and multiply in destructive power, and cross the most defended borders, and raise
                  a
                  mortal threat.</span> <span class="unity-P">There is only one force of history that can break the reign
                     of hatred and resentment, and expose the pretensions of tyrants, and reward the hopes
                     of
                     the decent and tolerant, and that is the force of human freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We are led, by events and common sense, to one conclusion: The
                  survival of liberty in our land increasingly depends on the success of liberty in
                  other lands. The best hope for peace in our world is the expansion of freedom in all
                  the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now
                  one.</span> From the day of our Founding, we have proclaimed that every man and
                  woman on this earth has rights, and dignity, and matchless value, because they bear
                  the
                  image of the Maker of Heaven and earth. Across the generations we have proclaimed
                  the
                  imperative of self-government, because no one is fit to be a master, and no one deserves
                  to be a slave. Advancing these ideals is the mission that created our Nation. It is
                  the
                  honorable achievement of our fathers. Now it is the urgent requirement of our nation's
                  security, and the calling of our time.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">So it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the
                  growth of democratic movements and institutions in every nation and culture, with
                  the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">This is not primarily the task of arms, though we will defend
                  ourselves and our friends by force of arms when necessary.</span> Freedom, by its
                  nature, must be chosen, and defended by citizens, and sustained by the rule of law
                  and
                  the protection of minorities. And when the soul of a nation finally speaks, the
                  institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different from our
                  own.
                  <span class="diplomacy">America will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling. Our
                     goal instead is to help others find their own voice, attain their own freedom, and
                     make their own way.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The great objective of ending tyranny is the concentrated work of generations.
                  The difficulty of the task is no excuse for avoiding it. America's influence is not
                  unlimited, but fortunately for the oppressed, America's influence is considerable,
                  and
                  we will use it confidently in freedom's cause.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">My most solemn duty is to protect this nation and its people
                  against further attacks and emerging threats. Some have unwisely chosen to test
                  America's resolve, and have found it firm.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We will persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and every
                  nation: The moral choice between oppression, which is always wrong, and freedom,
                  which is eternally right.</span> America will not pretend that jailed
                  dissidents prefer their chains, or that women welcome humiliation and servitude, or
                  that
                  any human being aspires to live at the mercy of bullies.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We will encourage reform in other governments by making clear that
                  success in our relations will require the decent treatment of their own people.
                  America's belief in human dignity will guide our policies, yet rights must be more
                  than the grudging concessions of dictators; they are secured by free dissent and the
                  participation of the governed. In the long run, there is no justice without freedom,
                  and there can be no human rights without human liberty.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Some, I know, have questioned the global appeal of liberty—though this time in
                  history, four decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen, is an
                  odd
                  time for doubt. <span class="democracy">Americans, of all people, should never be surprised by the
                     power of our ideals. Eventually, the call of freedom comes to every mind and every
                     soul. We do not accept the existence of permanent tyranny because we do not accept
                     the possibility of permanent slavery. Liberty will come to those who love
                     it.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Today, America speaks anew to the peoples of the
                  world:</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know: the United States
                  will not ignore your oppression, or excuse your oppressors. When you stand for your
                  liberty, we will stand with you.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Democratic reformers facing repression, prison, or exile can know:
                  America sees you for who you are: the future leaders of your free
                  country.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">The rulers of outlaw regimes can know that we still believe as Abraham
                  Lincoln did: "Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and,
                  under the rule of a just God, cannot long retain it."</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The leaders of governments with long habits of control need to know:
                  To serve your people you must learn to trust them. <span class="unity-P">Start on this journey of progress
                     and justice, and America will walk at your side.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">And all the allies of the United States can know: we honor your
                  friendship, we rely on your counsel, and we depend on your help.</span><span class="unity-N"> Division among free
                     nations is a primary goal of freedom's enemies.</span>
                  <span class="democracy">The concerted effort of free nations to promote democracy is a prelude to our
                     enemies' defeat.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Today, I also speak anew to my fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">From all of you, I have asked patience in the hard task of
                  securing America, which you have granted in good measure. Our country has accepted
                  obligations that are difficult to fulfill, and would be dishonorable to abandon. Yet
                  because we have acted in the great liberating tradition of this nation, tens of
                  millions have achieved their freedom. And as hope kindles hope, millions more will
                  find it. By our efforts, we have lit a fire as well—a fire in the minds of men. It
                  warms those who feel its power, it burns those who fight its progress, and one day
                  this untamed fire of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our
                  world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this cause—in
                  the quiet work of intelligence and diplomacy...the idealistic work of helping raise
                  up free governments...the dangerous and necessary work of fighting our enemies. Some
                  have shown their devotion to our country in deaths that honored their whole
                  lives—and we will always honor their names and their sacrifice.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>All Americans have witnessed this idealism, and some for the first time. I ask
                  our youngest citizens to believe the evidence of your eyes. <span class="war-P">You have seen
                     duty and allegiance in the determined faces of our soldiers.</span>
                  <span class="unity-P">You have seen that life is fragile, and evil is real, and courage
                     triumphs. Make the choice to serve in a cause larger than your wants, larger than
                     yourself—and in your days you will add not just to the wealth of our country, but
                     to
                     its character.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">America has need of idealism and courage, because we have
                  essential work at home—the unfinished work of American freedom.</span> In a world
                  moving toward liberty, we are determined to show the meaning and promise of
                  liberty.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, citizens find the dignity and <span class="economy-N">security of economic independence</span>, instead of laboring on the edge of
                  subsistence. <span class="regulation">This is the broader definition of liberty that motivated the
                     Homestead Act, the Social Security Act, and the G.I. Bill of Rights</span>.
                  And now we will extend this vision by reforming great institutions to serve the needs
                  of
                  our time. To give every American a stake in the promise and future of our country,
                  <span class="education-N">we will bring the highest standards to our schools</span>,
                  and build an ownership society. <span class="economy-N">We will widen the ownership of homes
                     and businesses, retirement savings and health insurance—preparing our people for the
                     challenges of life in a free society</span>. By making every citizen an agent of
                  his or her own destiny, we will give our fellow Americans greater freedom from want
                  and
                  fear, and make our society more prosperous and just and equal.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, the public interest depends on private
                  character—on integrity, and tolerance toward others, and the rule of conscience in
                  our
                  own lives. Self-government relies, in the end, on the governing of the self.
                  <span class="religion">That edifice of character is built in families, supported by communities
                     with standards, and sustained in our national life by the truths of Sinai, the
                     Sermon on the Mount, the words of the Koran, and the varied faiths of our
                     people</span>. Americans move forward in every generation by reaffirming all
                  that is good and true that came before—ideals of justice and conduct that are the
                  same
                  yesterday, today, and forever.</p>
               
               
               <p>In America's ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service, and
                  mercy, and a heart for the weak. Liberty for all does not mean independence from one
                  another. Our nation relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and surround
                  the
                  lost with love. <span class="unity-P">Americans, at our best, value the life we see in one
                     another, and must always remember that even the unwanted have worth</span>.
                  <span class="race">And our country must abandon all the habits of racism, because we cannot carry
                     the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same
                     time</span>.</p>
               
               
               <p>From the perspective of a single day, including this day of dedication, the
                  issues and questions before our country are many. From the viewpoint of centuries,
                  the
                  questions that come to us are narrowed and few. Did our generation advance the cause
                  of
                  freedom? And did our character bring credit to that cause?</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">These questions that judge us also unite us, because Americans of
                  every party and background, Americans by choice and by birth, are bound to one
                  another in the cause of freedom. We have known divisions, which must be healed to
                  move forward in great purposes—and I will strive in good faith to heal them. Yet
                  those divisions do not define America. We felt the unity and fellowship of our
                  nation when freedom came under attack, and our response came like a single hand over
                  a single heart. And we can feel that same unity and pride whenever America acts for
                  good, and the victims of disaster are given hope, and the unjust encounter justice,
                  and the captives are set free.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We go forward with complete confidence in the eventual triumph of freedom. Not
                  because history runs on the wheels of inevitability; it is human choices that move
                  events. Not because we consider ourselves a chosen nation; God moves and chooses as
                  He
                  wills. We have confidence because freedom is the permanent hope of mankind, the hunger
                  in dark places, the longing of the soul. <span class="democracy">When our Founders declared a new
                     order of the ages</span>; <span class="war-P">when soldiers died in wave upon wave
                        for a union based on liberty</span>; <span class="unity-P">when citizens marched in
                           peaceful outrage under the banner "Freedom Now"—they were acting on an ancient hope
                           that is meant to be fulfilled</span>. History has an ebb and flow of justice, but
                  history also has a visible direction, set by liberty and the Author of
                  Liberty.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">When the Declaration of Independence was first read in public and the
                  Liberty Bell was sounded in celebration, a witness said, "It rang as if it meant
                  something." In our time it means something still. America, in this young century,
                  proclaims liberty throughout all the world, and to all the inhabitants thereof.
                  Renewed in our strength—tested, but not weary—we are ready for the greatest
                  achievements in the history of freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>May God bless you, and may He watch over the United States of
                  America.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="clinton_1.xhtml">Bill Clinton</a></li>
            <li><a href="obama_1.xhtml">Barack Obama</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>