<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Jimmy Carter Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20, 1977</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            
            <p><span class="pred-P">FOR myself and for our Nation, I want to thank my predecessor for all he has done
                  to heal our land.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">In this outward and physical ceremony we attest once again to the inner and
                  spiritual strength of our Nation. As my high school teacher, Miss Julia Coleman, used
                  to
                  say: "We must adjust to changing times and still hold to unchanging
                  principles."</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">Here before me is the Bible used in the inauguration of our first President, in
                  1789, and I have just taken the oath of office on the Bible my mother gave me a few
                  years ago, opened to a timeless admonition from the ancient prophet Micah:</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">"He hath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of
                  thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God." (Micah
                  6:8)</span></p>
            
            
            <p>This inauguration ceremony marks a new beginning, a new dedication within our
               Government, and a new spirit among us all. A President may sense and proclaim that
               new
               spirit, but only a people can provide it.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Two centuries ago our Nation's birth was a milestone in the long quest for
                  freedom, but the bold and brilliant dream which excited the founders of this Nation
                  still awaits its consummation. I have no new dream to set forth today, but rather
                  urge a
                  fresh faith in the old dream.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">Ours was the first society openly to define itself in terms of both spirituality
                  and of human liberty. It is that unique self-definition which has given us an
                  exceptional appeal, but it also imposes on us a special obligation, to take on those
                  moral duties which, when assumed, seem invariably to be in our own best
                  interests.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">You have given me a great responsibility--to stay close to you, to be worthy of
                  you, and to exemplify what you are. Let us create together a new national spirit of
                  unity and trust. Your strength can compensate for my weakness, and your wisdom can
                  help
                  to minimize my mistakes.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Let us learn together and laugh together and work together and pray together,
                  confident that in the end we will triumph together in the right.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">The American dream endures. We must once again have full faith in our
                  country--and in one another. I believe America can be better. We can be even stronger
                  than before.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Let our recent mistakes bring a resurgent commitment to the basic principles of
                  our Nation, for we know that if we despise our own government we have no future.</span> <span class="unity-P">We
                  recall in special times when we have stood briefly, but magnificently, united. In
                  those
                  times no prize was beyond our grasp.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">But we cannot dwell upon remembered glory. We cannot afford to drift. We reject
                  the prospect of failure or mediocrity or an inferior quality of life for any person.
                  Our
                  Government must at the same time be both competent and compassionate.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="regulation">We have already found a high degree of personal liberty, and we are now
                  struggling to enhance equality of opportunity. Our commitment to human rights must
                  be
                  absolute, our laws fair, our natural beauty preserved; the powerful must not persecute
                  the weak, and human dignity must be enhanced.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">We have learned that "more" is not necessarily "better," that even our great
                  Nation has its recognized limits, and that we can neither answer all questions nor
                  solve
                  all problems. We cannot afford to do everything, nor can we afford to lack boldness
                  as
                  we meet the future. So, together, in a spirit of individual sacrifice for the common
                  good, we must simply do our best.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">Our Nation can be strong abroad only if it is strong at home. And we know that
                  the best way to enhance freedom in other lands is to demonstrate here that our
                  democratic system is worthy of emulation.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To be true to ourselves, we must be true to others. We will not behave in foreign
                  places so as to violate our rules and standards here at home, for we know that the
                  trust
                  which our Nation earns is essential to our strength.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">The world itself is now dominated by a new spirit. Peoples more numerous and more
                  politically aware are craving and now demanding their place in the sun--not just for
                  the
                  benefit of their own physical condition, but for basic human rights.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">The passion for freedom is on the rise. Tapping this new spirit, there can be no
                  nobler nor more ambitious task for America to undertake on this day of a new beginning
                  than to help shape a just and peaceful world that is truly humane.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">We are a strong nation, and we will maintain strength so sufficient that it need
                  not be proven in combat--a quiet strength based not merely on the size of an arsenal,
                  but on the nobility of ideas.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">We will be ever vigilant and never vulnerable, and we will fight our wars against
                  poverty, ignorance, and injustice--for those are the enemies against which our forces
                  can be honorably marshaled.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">We are a purely idealistic Nation, but let no one confuse our idealism with
                  weakness.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">Because we are free we can never be indifferent to the fate of freedom elsewhere.
                  Our moral sense dictates a clearcut preference for these societies which share with
                  us
                  an abiding respect for individual human rights. We do not seek to intimidate, but
                  it is
                  clear that a world which others can dominate with impunity would be inhospitable to
                  decency and a threat to the well-being of all people.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">The world is still engaged in a massive armaments race designed to ensure
                  continuing equivalent strength among potential adversaries. We pledge perseverance
                  and
                  wisdom in our efforts to limit the world's armaments to those necessary for each
                  nation's own domestic safety. And we will move this year a step toward ultimate
                  goal--the elimination of all nuclear weapons from this Earth. We urge all other people
                  to join us, for success can mean life instead of death.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Within us, the people of the United States, there is evident a serious and
                  purposeful rekindling of confidence. And I join in the hope that when my time as your
                  President has ended, people might say this about our Nation:</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">--that we had remembered the words of Micah and renewed our search for humility,
                  mercy, and justice;</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="race">--that we had torn down the barriers that separated those of different race</span> and
               region and <span class="religion">religion</span>, and <span class="unity-P">where there had been mistrust, built unity, with a respect for
                  diversity;</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="jobs-P">--that we had found productive work for those able to perform it;</span></p>
            
            
            <p>--that we had strengthened the American family, which is the basis of our
               society;</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="criminal_justice-N">--that we had ensured respect for the law, and equal treatment under the law, for
                  the weak and the powerful, for the rich and the poor;</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">--and that we had enabled our people to be proud of their own Government once
                  again-.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">I would hope that the nations of the world might say that we had built a lasting
                  peace, built not on weapons of war but on international policies which reflect our
                  own
                  most precious values.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">These are not just my goals, and they will not be my accomplishments, but the
                  affirmation of our Nation's continuing moral strength and our belief in an undiminished,
                  ever-expanding American dream.</span></p>
            </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="nixon_1.xhtml">Richard Nixon</a></li>
            <li><a href="reagan_1.xhtml">Ronald Reagan</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>