<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Bill Clinton (1993-2001)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Wednesday, January 21,
               1993</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>My fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p>Today we celebrate the mystery of American renewal.</p>
               
               
               <p>This ceremony is held in the depth of winter, but by the words we speak and the
                  faces we show the world, we force the spring. <span class="democracy">A spring reborn in the world's
                     oldest democracy, that brings forth the vision and courage to reinvent America. When
                     our founders boldly declared America's independence to the world, and our purposes
                     to the Almighty, they knew that America, to endure, would have to change. Not change
                     for change sake, but change to preserve America's ideals: life, liberty, the pursuit
                     of happiness.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Though we march to the music of our time, our mission is timeless. <span class="unity-P">Each
                     generation of American's must define what it means to be an American.</span> <span class="pred-P">On
                     behalf of our nation, I salute my predecessor, President Bush, for his half-century
                     of service to America</span>...and <span class="unity-P">I thank the millions of men and
                     women whose steadfastness and sacrifice triumphed over depression, fascism and
                     communism.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Today, a generation raised in the shadows of the Cold War assumes
                     new responsibilities in a world warmed by the sunshine of freedom, but threatened
                     still by ancient hatreds and new plagues.</span>
                  <span class="economy-N">Raised in unrivalled prosperity, we inherit an economy that is still
                     the world's strongest, but is weakened by business failures, stagnant wages,
                     increasing inequality</span>, and <span class="unity-N">deep divisions among *our own*
                     people.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>When George Washington first took the oath I have just sworn to uphold, news
                  travelled slowly across the land by horseback, and across the ocean by boat. <span class="economy-P">Now the
                     sights and sounds of this ceremony are broadcast instantaneously to billions around
                     the
                     world. Communications and commerce are global. Investment is mobile. Technology is
                     almost magical, and ambition for a better life is now universal.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We earn our livelihood in America today in peaceful competition with people all
                  across the Earth. Profound and powerful forces are shaking and remaking our world,
                  and
                  the *urgent* question of our time is whether we can make change our friend and not
                  our
                  enemy. This new world has already enriched the lives of *millions* of Americans who
                  are
                  able to compete and win in it. But when most people are working harder for less, when
                  others cannot work at all, <span class="public_health-N">when the cost of health care
                     devastates families and threatens to bankrupt our enterprises, great and
                     small;</span>
                  <span class="criminal_justice-N">when the fear of crime robs law abiding citizens of their
                     freedom;</span> and when millions of poor children cannot even imagine
                  the lives we are calling them to lead, we have not made change our friend.</p>
               
               
               <p>We know we have to face hard truths and take strong steps, but we have not done
                  so. <span class="economy-N">Instead we have drifted, and that drifting has eroded our
                     resources, fractured our economy, and shaken our confidence.</span>
                  <span class="unity-N">Though our challenges are fearsome, so are our strengths. Americans have
                     ever been a restless, questing, hopeful people, and we must bring to our task today
                     the vision and will of those who came before us. </span>
                  <span class="democracy">From our Revolution to the Civil War, to the Great Depression, to the Civil
                     Rights movement, our people have always mustered the determination to construct from
                     these crises the pillars of our history. Thomas Jefferson believed that to preserve
                     the very foundations of our nation we would need dramatic change from time to
                     time.</span>
                  <span class="unity-P">Well, my fellow Americans, this is OUR time. Let us embrace
                     it.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Our democracy must be not only the envy of the world but the engine of
                     our *own* renewal.</span> There is nothing *wrong* with America that cannot be
                  cured by what is *right* with America.</p>
               
               
               <p>And so today we pledge an end to the era of deadlock and drift, and a new season
                  of American renewal has begun.</p>
               
               
               <p>To renew America we must be bold. We must do what no generation has had to do
                  before. We must invest more in our own people, <span class="jobs-P">in their jobs</span>, and
                  in their future, and <span class="economy-N">at the same time cut our massive
                     debt</span>...and we must do so in a world in which we must compete for every
                  opportunity. It will not be easy. It will require sacrifice, but it can be done, and
                  done fairly. Not choosing sacrifice for its own sake, but for *our* own sake. <span class="unity-P">We must
                     provide for our nation the way a family provides for its children. Our founders saw
                     themselves in the light of posterity. We can do no less.</span> Anyone who has ever watched a
                  child's eyes wander into sleep knows what posterity is. Posterity is the world to
                  come,
                  the world for whom we hold our ideals, from whom we have borrowed our planet, and
                  to
                  whom we bear sacred responsibilities. We must do what America does best, offer more
                  opportunity TO all and demand more responsibility *from* all.</p>
               
               
               <p>It is time to break the bad habit of expecting something for nothing: from our
                  government, or from each other. Let us all take more responsibility, not only for
                  ourselves and our families, but for our communities and our country. <span class="democracy">To renew
                     America we must revitalize our democracy.</span> This beautiful capitol, like
                  every capitol since the dawn of civilization, is often a place of intrigue and
                  calculation. Powerful people maneuver for position and worry endlessly about who is
                  *in*
                  and who is *out*, who is *up* and who is *down*, forgetting those people whose toil
                  and
                  sweat sends us here and paves our way.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Americans deserve better, and in this city today there are people
                     who want to do better, and so I say to all of you here, let us resolve to reform our
                     politics, so that power and privilege no longer shout down the voice of the people.
                     Let us put aside personal advantage, so that we can feel the pain and see the
                     promise of America. Let us resolve to make our government a place for what Franklin
                     Roosevelt called "bold, persistent experimentation, a government for our tomorrows,
                     not our yesterdays." Let us give this capitol back to the people to whom it
                     belongs.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>To renew America we must meet challenges abroad, as well as at home.
                  <span class="diplomacy">There is no longer a clear division between what is foreign and what is
                     domestic. The world economy, the world environment, the world AIDS crisis, the world
                     arms race: they affect us all. Today as an old order passes, the new world is more
                     free, but less stable. Communism's collapse has called forth old animosities, and
                     new dangers. Clearly, America must continue to lead the world we did so much to
                     make. While America rebuilds at home, we will not shrink from the challenges nor
                     fail to seize the opportunities of this new world. Together with our friends and
                     allies, we will work together to shape change, lest it engulf us. When our vital
                     interests are challenged, or the will and conscience of the international community
                     is defied, we will act; with peaceful diplomacy whenever possible, with force when
                     necessary.</span>
                  <span class="war-P">The brave Americans serving our nation today in the Persian Gulf, in
                     Somalia, and wherever else they stand, are testament to our resolve, but our
                     greatest strength is the power of our ideas, which are still new in many lands.
                     Across the world, we see them embraced and we rejoice.</span>
                  <span class="democracy">Our hopes, our hearts, our hands, are with those on every continent, who are
                     building democracy and freedom.</span> Their cause is America's cause. The
                  American people have summoned the change we celebrate today. You have raised your
                  voices
                  in an unmistakable chorus, you have cast your votes in historic numbers, you have
                  changed the face of congress, the presidency, and the political process itself. Yes,
                  *you*, my fellow Americans, have forced the spring. Now *we* must do the work the
                  season
                  demands. To that work I now turn with *all* the authority of my office. <span class="congress">I ask
                     the congress to join with me; but no president, no congress, no government can
                     undertake *this* mission alone.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, you, too, must play your part in our
                     renewal. I challenge a new generation of *young* Americans to a season of service,
                     to act on your idealism, by helping troubled children, keeping company with those
                     in
                     need, reconnecting our torn communities. There is so much to be done. Enough,
                     indeed, for millions of others who are still young in spirit, to give of themselves
                     in service, too. In serving we recognize a simple, but powerful, truth: we need each
                     other, and we must care for one another. Today we do more than celebrate America,
                     we
                     rededicate ourselves to the very idea of America, an idea born in revolution, and
                     renewed through two centuries of challenge, an idea tempered by the knowledge that
                     but for fate, we, the fortunate and the unfortunate, might have been each other; an
                     idea ennobled by the faith that our nation can summon from its myriad diversity, the
                     deepest measure of unity; an idea infused with the conviction that America's journey
                     long, heroic journey must go forever upward.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And so, my fellow Americans, as we stand at the edge of the 21st
                     Century, let us begin anew, with energy and hope, with faith and discipline, and let
                     us work until our work is done.</span>
                  <span class="religion">The Scripture says: "And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season
                     we shall reap, if we faint not." From this joyful mountaintop of celebration we hear
                     a call to service in the valley. We have heard the trumpets, we have changed the
                     guard, and now each in our own way, and with God's help, we must answer the
                     call.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Thank you and God bless you all.</p>
               </div>
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Monday, 
               January 20, 1997
            </button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow citizens: At this last presidential inauguration of the 20th century, let
                  us lift our eyes toward the challenges that await us in the next century. It is our
                  great
                  good fortune that time and chance have put us not only at the edge of a new century,
                  in a
                  new millennium, but on the edge of a bright new prospect in human affairs—a moment
                  that will
                  define our course, and our character, for decades to come. We must keep our old democracy
                  forever young. Guided by the ancient vision of a promised land, let us set our sights
                  upon a
                  land of new promise.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The promise of America was born in the 18th century out of the bold conviction that
                  we are all created equal. It was extended and preserved in the 19th century, when
                  our nation
                  spread across the continent, saved the union, and abolished the awful scourge of
                  slavery.</p>
               
               
               <p>Then, in turmoil and triumph, that promise exploded onto the world stage to make this
                  the American Century.</p>
               
               
               <p>And what a century it has been. <span class="infrastructure">America became the world's mightiest industrial
                  power;</span> <span class="democracy">saved the world from tyranny in two world wars and a long cold war; and time and
                     again, reached out across the globe to millions who, like us, longed for the blessings
                     of
                     liberty.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">Along the way, Americans produced a great middle class and security in old age;</span> <span class="education-P">built
                  unrivaled centers of learning and opened public schools to all; split the atom and
                  explored
                  the heavens; invented the computer and the microchip;</span> <span class="criminal_justice-P">and deepened the wellspring of justice</span>
                  <span class="regulation">by making a revolution in civil rights for African Americans and all minorities, and
                     extending the circle of citizenship, opportunity and dignity to women.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Now, for the third time, a new century is upon us, and another time to choose. We
                  began the 19th century with a choice, to spread our nation from coast to coast. We
                  began the
                  20th century with a choice, to harness the Industrial Revolution to our values of
                  free
                  enterprise, conservation, and human decency. Those choices made all the difference.
                  At the
                  dawn of the 21st century a free people must now choose to shape the forces of the
                  Information Age and the global society, to unleash the limitless potential of all
                  our
                  people, and, yes, to form a more perfect union.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>When last we gathered, our march to this new future seemed less certain than it does
                  today. We vowed then to set a clear course to renew our nation.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">In these four years, we have been touched by tragedy, exhilarated by challenge,
                  strengthened by achievement. America stands alone as the world's indispensable nation.
                  Once
                  again, our economy is the strongest on Earth. Once again, we are building stronger
                  families,
                  thriving communities, better educational opportunities, a cleaner environment. Problems
                  that
                  once seemed destined to deepen now bend to our efforts: our streets are safer and
                  record
                  numbers of our fellow citizens have moved from welfare to work.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And once again, we have resolved for our time a great debate over the role of
                  government. Today we can declare: Government is not the problem, and government is
                  not the
                  solution. We—the American people—we are the solution. Our founders understood that
                  well and
                  gave us a democracy strong enough to endure for centuries, flexible enough to face
                  our
                  common challenges and advance our common dreams in each new day.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">As times change, so government must change. We need a new government for a new
                  century—humble enough not to try to solve all our problems for us, but strong enough
                  to give
                  us the tools to solve our problems for ourselves; a government that is smaller, lives
                  within
                  its means, and does more with less. Yet where it can stand up for our values and interests
                  in the world, and where it can give Americans the power to make a real difference
                  in their
                  everyday lives, government should do more, not less. The preeminent mission of our
                  new
                  government is to give all Americans an opportunity—not a guarantee, but a real
                  opportunity—to build better lives.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Beyond that, my fellow citizens, the future is up to us. Our founders taught us that
                  the preservation of our liberty and our union depends upon responsible citizenship.
                  And we
                  need a new sense of responsibility for a new century. There is work to do, work that
                  government alone cannot do: teaching children to read; hiring people off welfare rolls;
                  coming out from behind locked doors and shuttered windows to help reclaim our streets
                  from
                  drugs and gangs and crime; taking time out of our own lives to serve others.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Each and every one of us, in our own way, must assume personal responsibility—not
                  only for ourselves and our families, but for our neighbors and our nation. Our greatest
                  responsibility is to embrace a new spirit of community for a new century. For any
                  one of us
                  to succeed, we must succeed as one America.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">The challenge of our past remains the challenge of our future—will we be one nation,
                  one people, with one common destiny, or not? Will we all come together, or come
                  apart?</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">The divide of race has been America's constant curse. And each new wave of immigrants
                  gives new targets to old prejudices. Prejudice and contempt, cloaked in the pretense
                  of
                  religious or political conviction are no different. These forces have nearly destroyed
                  our
                  nation in the past. They plague us still. They fuel the fanaticism of terror. And
                  they
                  torment the lives of millions in fractured nations all around the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">These obsessions cripple both those who hate and, of course, those who are hated,
                  robbing both of what they might become. We cannot, we will not, succumb to the dark
                  impulses
                  that lurk in the far regions of the soul everywhere. We shall overcome them. And we
                  shall
                  replace them with the generous spirit of a people who feel at home with one
                  another.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">Our rich texture of racial, religious and political diversity will be a Godsend in
                  the 21st century. Great rewards will come to those who can live together, learn together,
                  work together, forge new ties that bind together.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>As this new era approaches we can already see its broad outlines. Ten years ago, the
                  Internet was the mystical province of physicists; today, it is a commonplace encyclopedia
                  for millions of schoolchildren. Scientists now are decoding the blueprint of human
                  life.
                  Cures for our most feared illnesses seem close at hand.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">The world is no longer divided into two hostile camps. Instead, now we are building
                  bonds with nations that once were our adversaries. Growing connections of commerce
                  and
                  culture give us a chance to lift the fortunes and spirits of people the world over.</span> <span class="democracy">And for
                     the very first time in all of history, more people on this planet live under democracy
                     than
                     dictatorship.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>My fellow Americans, as we look back at this remarkable century, we may ask, can we
                  hope not just to follow, but even to surpass the achievements of the 20th century
                  in America
                  and to avoid the awful bloodshed that stained its legacy? To that question, every
                  American
                  here and every American in our land today must answer a resounding "Yes."</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">This is the heart of our task. With a new vision of government, a new sense of
                  responsibility, a new spirit of community, we will sustain America's journey. The
                  promise we
                  sought in a new land we will find again in a land of new promise.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="education-P">In this new land, education will be every citizen's most prized possession. Our
                  schools will have the highest standards in the world, igniting the spark of possibility
                  in
                  the eyes of every girl and every boy. And the doors of higher education will be open
                  to all.
                  The knowledge and power of the Information Age will be within reach not just of the
                  few, but
                  of every classroom, every library, every child. Parents and children will have time
                  not only
                  to work, but to read and play together. And the plans they make at their kitchen table
                  will
                  be those of a better home, a better job, the certain chance to go to college.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="criminal_justice-N">Our streets will echo again with the laughter of our children, because no one will
                  try to shoot them or sell them drugs anymore.</span> <span class="jobs-P">Everyone who can work, will work, with today's
                     permanent under class part of tomorrow's growing middle class.</span> <span class="public_health-P">New miracles of medicine at
                        last will reach not only those who can claim care now, but the children and hardworking
                        families too long denied.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">We will stand mighty for peace and freedom, and maintain a strong defense against
                  terror and destruction. Our children will sleep free from the threat of nuclear, chemical
                  or
                  biological weapons.</span> <span class="infrastructure">Ports and airports, farms and factories will thrive with trade and
                     innovation and ideas.</span> <span class="democracy">And the world's greatest democracy will lead a whole world of
                        democracies.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">Our land of new promise will be a nation that meets its obligations—a nation that
                  balances its budget, but never loses the balance of its values. A nation where our
                  grandparents have secure retirement and health care, and their grandchildren know
                  we have
                  made the reforms necessary to sustain those benefits for their time.</span> <span class="regulation">A nation that fortifies
                     the world's most productive economy even as it protects the great natural bounty of
                     our
                     water, air, and majestic land.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">And in this land of new promise, we will have reformed our politics so that the voice
                  of the people will always speak louder than the din of narrow interests—regaining
                  the
                  participation and deserving the trust of all Americans.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Fellow citizens, let us build that America, a nation ever moving forward toward
                  realizing the full potential of all its citizens. Prosperity and power—yes, they are
                  important, and we must maintain them. But let us never forget: The greatest progress
                  we have
                  made, and the greatest progress we have yet to make, is in the human heart. In the
                  end, all
                  the world's wealth and a thousand armies are no match for the strength and decency
                  of the
                  human spirit.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">Thirty-four years ago, the man whose life we celebrate today spoke to us down there,
                  at the other end of this Mall, in words that moved the conscience of a nation. Like
                  a
                  prophet of old, he told of his dream that one day America would rise up and treat
                  all its
                  citizens as equals before the law and in the heart. Martin Luther King's dream was
                  the
                  American Dream. His quest is our quest: the ceaseless striving to live out our true
                  creed.
                  Our history has been built on such dreams and labors. And by our dreams and labors
                  we will
                  redeem the promise of America in the 21st century.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="congress">To that effort I pledge all my strength and every power of my office. I ask the
                  members of Congress here to join in that pledge. The American people returned to office
                  a
                  President of one party and a Congress of another. Surely, they did not do this to
                  advance
                  the politics of petty bickering and extreme partisanship they plainly deplore. No,
                  they call
                  on us instead to be repairers of the breach, and to move on with America's
                  mission.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>America demands and deserves big things from us—and nothing big ever came from being
                  small. Let us remember the timeless wisdom of Cardinal Bernardin, when facing the
                  end of his
                  own life. He said:</p>
               
               
               <p>"It is wrong to waste the precious gift of time, on acrimony and
                  division."</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Fellow citizens, we must not waste the precious gift of this time. For all of us are
                  on that same journey of our lives, and our journey, too, will come to an end. But
                  the
                  journey of our America must go on.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And so, my fellow Americans, we must be strong, for there is much to dare. The
                  demands of our time are great and they are different. Let us meet them with faith
                  and
                  courage, with patience and a grateful and happy heart. Let us shape the hope of this
                  day
                  into the noblest chapter in our history. Yes, let us build our bridge. A bridge wide
                  enough
                  and strong enough for every American to cross over to a blessed land of new
                  promise.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>May those generations whose faces we cannot yet see, whose names we may never know,
                  say of us here that we led our beloved land into a new century with the American Dream
                  alive
                  for all her children; with the American promise of a more perfect union a reality
                  for all
                  her people; with America's bright flame of freedom spreading throughout all the
                  world.</p>
               
               
               <p>From the height of this place and the summit of this century, let us go forth. May
                  God strengthen our hands for the good work ahead—and always, always bless our
                  America.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="hwbush_1.xhtml">George H.W. Bush</a></li>
            <li><a href="bush_1.xhtml">George W. Bush</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>