<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      <head>
            <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css" />
            <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
            <h2>Dwight D. Eisenhower Second Inaugural Address Monday, January 21, 1957</h2>
            <p> Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Speaker, members of my
                  family and friends, my countrymen, and thea friends of my country, wherever they
                  may be, we meet again, as upon a like moment four years ago, and again you have
                  witnessed my solemn oath of service to you.</p>
            <p>I, too, am a witness, today testifying in your name to the principles and purposes to
                  which we, as a people, are pledged.</p>
            <p><span class="economy">Before all else, we seek, upon our common labor as a nation,
                        the blessings of Almighty God.</span> And the hopes in our hearts fashion
                  the deepest prayers of our whole people.</p>
            <p>May we pursue the right—without self-righteousness.</p>
            <p><span class="unity-N">May we know unity—without conformity.</span></p>
            <p>May we grow in strength—without pride in self.</p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">May we, in our dealings with all peoples of the earth, ever
                        speak truth and serve justice.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-P">And so shall America—in the sight of all men of good will—prove
                        true to the honorable purposes that bind and rule us as a people in all this
                        time of trial through which we pass.</span></p>
            <p>We live in a land of plenty, but rarely has this earth known such peril as today.</p>
            <p><span class="economy-P">In our nation work and wealth abound. Our population grows.
                        Commerce crowds our rivers and rails, our skies, harbors, and highways. Our
                        soil is fertile, our agriculture productive. The air rings with the song of
                        our industry—rolling mills and blast furnaces, dynamos, dams, and assembly
                        lines—the chorus of America the bountiful.</span></p>
            <p>This is our home—yet this is not the whole of our world. For our world is where our
                  full destiny lies—with men, of all people, and all nations, who are or would be
                  free. And for them—and so for us—this is no time of ease or of rest.</p>
            <p><span class="democracy">In too much of the earth there is want, discord, danger. New
                        forces and new nations stir and strive across the earth, with power to
                        bring, by their fate, great good or great evil to the free world's future.
                        From the deserts of North Africa to the islands of the South Pacific one
                        third of all mankind has entered upon an historic struggle for a new
                        freedom; freedom from grinding poverty. Across all continents, nearly a
                        billion people seek, sometimes almost in desperation, for the skills and
                        knowledge and assistance by which they may satisfy from their own resources,
                        the material wants common to all mankind.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">No nation, however old or great, escapes this tempest of
                        change and turmoil. Some, impoverished by the recent World War, seek to
                        restore their means of livelihood. In the heart of Europe, Germany still
                        stands tragically divided. So is the whole continent divided. And so, too,
                        is all the world.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">The divisive force is International Communism and the power
                        that it controls.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">The designs of that power, dark in purpose, are clear in
                        practice. It strives to seal forever the fate of those it has enslaved. It
                        strives to break the ties that unite the free. And it strives to capture—to
                        exploit for its own greater power—all forces of change in the world,
                        especially the needs of the hungry and the hopes of the
                  oppressed.</span></p>
            <p><span class="democracy">Yet the world of International Communism has itself been
                        shaken by a fierce and mighty force: the readiness of men who love freedom
                        to pledge their lives to that love. Through the night of their bondage, the
                        unconquerable will of heroes has struck with the swift, sharp thrust of
                        lightning. Budapest is no longer merely the name of a city; henceforth it is
                        a new and shining symbol of man's yearning to be free.</span></p>
            <p>Thus across all the globe there harshly blow the winds of change. And, we—though
                  fortunate be our lot—know that we can never turn our backs to them.</p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We look upon this shaken earth, and we declare our firm and
                        fixed purpose—the building of a peace with justice in a world where moral
                        law prevails.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">The building of such a peace is a bold and solemn purpose. To
                        proclaim it is easy. To serve it will be hard. And to attain it, we must be
                        aware of its full meaning—and ready to pay its full price. We know clearly
                        what we seek, and why.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-N">We seek peace, knowing that peace is the climate of freedom. And
                        now, as in no other age, we seek it because we have been warned, by the
                        power of modern weapons, that peace may be the only climate possible for
                        human life itself.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-N">Yet this peace we seek cannot be born of fear alone: it must be
                        rooted in the lives of nations. There must be justice, sensed and shared by
                        all peoples, for, without justice the world can know only a tense and
                        unstable truce. There must be law, steadily invoked and respected by all
                        nations, for without law, the world promises only such meager justice as the
                        pity of the strong upon the weak. But the law of which we speak,
                        comprehending the values of freedom, affirms the equality of all nations,
                        great and small.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Splendid as can be the blessings of such a peace, high will
                        be its cost: in toil patiently sustained, in help honorably given, in
                        sacrifice calmly borne.</span></p>
            <p>We are called to meet the price of this peace.</p>
            <p><span class="war-P">To counter the threat of those who seek to rule by force, we must
                        pay the costs of our own needed military strength, and help to build the
                        security of others.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We must use our skills and knowledge and, at times, our
                        substance, to help others rise from misery, however far the scene of
                        suffering may be from our shores. For wherever in the world a people knows
                        desperate want, there must appear at least the spark of hope, the hope of
                        progress—or there will surely rise at last the flames of
                  conflict.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We recognize and accept our own deep involvement in the
                        destiny of men everywhere. We are accordingly pledged to honor, and to
                        strive to fortify, the authority of the United Nations. For in that body
                        rests the best hope of our age for the assertion of that law by which all
                        nations may live in dignity.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-P">And, beyond this general resolve, we are called to act a
                        responsible role in the world's great concerns or conflicts—whether they
                        touch upon the affairs of a vast region, the fate of an island in the
                        Pacific, or the use of a canal in the Middle East.</span>
                  <span class="democracy">Only in respecting the hopes and cultures of others will
                        we practice the equality of all nations.</span>
                  <span class="diplomacy">Only as we show willingness and wisdom in giving
                        counsel—in receiving counsel—and in sharing burdens, will we wisely perform
                        the work of peace.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">For one truth must rule all we think and all we do. No people
                        can live to itself alone. The unity of all who dwell in freedom is their
                        only sure defense. The economic need of all nations—in mutual
                        dependence—makes isolation an impossibility; not even America's prosperity
                        could long survive if other nations did not also prosper. No nation can
                        longer be a fortress, lone and strong and safe. And any people, seeking such
                        shelter for themselves, can now build only their own prison.</span></p>
            <p>Our pledge to these principles is constant, because we believe in their
                  rightness.</p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">We do not fear this world of change. America is no stranger to
                        much of its spirit. Everywhere we see the seeds of the same growth that
                        America itself has known. The American experiment has, for generations,
                        fired the passion and the courage of millions elsewhere seeking freedom,
                        equality, and opportunity. And the American story of material progress has
                        helped excite the longing of all needy peoples for some satisfaction of
                        their human wants. These hopes that we have helped to inspire, we can help
                        to fulfill.</span></p>
            <p>In this confidence, we speak plainly to all peoples.</p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We cherish our friendship with all nations that are or would
                        be free. We respect, no less, their independence. And when, in time of want
                        or peril, they ask our help, they may honorably receive it; for we no more
                        seek to buy their sovereignty than we would sell our own. Sovereignty is
                        never bartered among freemen.</span></p>
            <p><span class="democracy">We honor the aspirations of those nations which, now captive,
                        long for freedom. We seek neither their military alliance nor any artificial
                        imitation of our society. And they can know the warmth of the welcome that
                        awaits them when, as must be, they join again the ranks of
                  freedom.</span></p>
            <p>We honor, no less in this divided world than in a less tormented time, the people of
                        Russia.<span class="education-P"> We do not dread, rather do we welcome,
                        their progress in education and industry.</span>
                  <span class="diplomacy">We wish them success in their demands for more
                        intellectual freedom, greater security before their own laws, fuller
                        enjoyment of the rewards of their own toil. For as such things come to pass,
                        the more certain will be the coming of that day when our peoples may freely
                        meet in friendship.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-N">So we voice our hope and our belief that we can help to heal this
                        divided world. Thus may the nations cease to live in trembling before the
                        menace of force. Thus may the weight of fear and the weight of arms be taken
                        from the burdened shoulders of mankind</span>.</p>
            <p>This, nothing less, is the labor to which we are called and our strength
                  dedicated.</p>
            <p>And so the prayer of our people carries far beyond our own frontiers, to the wide
                  world of our duty and our destiny.</p>
            <p>May the light of freedom, coming to all darkened lands, flame brightly—until at last
                  the darkness is no more.</p>
            <p>May the turbulence of our age yield to a true time of peace, when men and nations
                  shall share a life that honors the dignity of each, the brotherhood of all.</p>
      </body>
</html>
