<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Dwight D. Eisenhower (1953-1961)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container"><button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Tuesday, January 20,
               1953</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>My friends, before I begin the expression of those thoughts that I deem
                  appropriate to this moment, would you permit me the privilege of uttering a
                  little private prayer of my own. And I ask that you bow your
                  heads:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">Almighty God, as we stand here at this moment my future associates in
                     the executive branch of government join me in beseeching that Thou will make full
                     and complete our dedication to the service of the people in this throng, and their
                     fellow citizens everywhere.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">Give us, we pray, the power to discern clearly right from wrong, and
                     allow all our words and actions to be governed thereby, and by the laws of this
                     land. Especially we pray that our concern shall be for all the people regardless of
                     station, race, or calling.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">May cooperation be permitted and be the mutual aim of those who, under
                     the concepts of our Constitution, hold to differing political faiths; so that all
                     may work for the good of our beloved country and Thy glory.
                     Amen.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>My fellow citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p>The world and we have passed the midway point of a century of continuing
                  challenge. We sense with all our faculties that forces of good and evil are massed
                  and
                  armed and opposed as rarely before in history.</p>
               
               
               <p>This fact defines the meaning of this day. We are summoned by this honored and
                  historic ceremony to witness more than the act of one citizen swearing his oath of
                  service, in the presence of God. We are called as a people to give testimony in the
                  sight of the world to our faith that the future shall belong to the free.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Since this century's beginning, a time of tempest has seemed to
                     come upon the continents of the earth. Masses of Asia have awakened to strike off
                     shackles of the past. Great nations of Europe have fought their bloodiest wars.
                     Thrones have toppled and their vast empires have disappeared. New nations have been
                     born.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">For our own country, it has been a time of recurring trial. We
                     have grown in power and in responsibility. We have passed through the anxieties of
                     depression and of war to a summit unmatched in man's history.</span>
                  <span class="war-N">Seeking to secure peace in the world, we have had to fight through the
                     forests of the Argonne, to the shores of Iwo Jima, and to the cold mountains of
                     Korea.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">In the swift rush of great events, we find ourselves groping to know
                     the full sense and meaning of these times in which we live. In our quest of
                     understanding, we beseech God's guidance.</span> We summon all our knowledge of the past
                  and we scan all signs of the future. We bring all our wit and all our will to meet
                  the question:</p>
               
               
               <p>How far have we come in man's long pilgrimage from darkness toward
                  light? Are we nearing the light—a day of freedom and of peace for all mankind? Or
                  are the shadows of another night closing in upon us?</p>
               
               
               <p>Great as are the preoccupations absorbing us at home, concerned as we are with
                  matters that deeply affect our livelihood today and our vision of the future, each
                  of
                  these domestic problems is dwarfed by, and often even created by, this question that
                  involves all humankind.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">This trial comes at a moment when man's power to achieve good or
                     to inflict evil surpasses the brightest hopes and the sharpest fears of all ages.
                     We
                     can turn rivers in their courses, level mountains to the plains. Oceans and land and
                     sky are avenues for our colossal commerce. Disease diminishes and life
                     lengthens.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Yet the promise of this life is imperiled by the very genius that has made it
                  possible. Nations amass wealth. Labor sweats to create—and turns out devices to level
                  not only mountains but also cities. Science seems ready to confer upon us, as its
                  final
                  gift, the power to erase human life from this planet.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">At such a time in history, we who are free must proclaim anew our
                     faith. This faith is the abiding creed of our fathers. It is our faith in the
                     deathless dignity of man, governed by eternal moral and natural
                     laws.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">This faith defines our full view of life. It establishes, beyond
                     debate, those gifts of the Creator that are man's inalienable rights, and that make
                     all men equal in His sight.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In the light of this equality, we know that the virtues most cherished by free
                  people—love of truth, pride of work, devotion to country—all are treasures equally
                  precious in the lives of the most humble and of the most exalted. <span class="economy-P">The
                     men who mine coal and fire furnaces and balance ledgers and turn lathes and pick
                     cotton and heal the sick and plant corn—all serve as proudly, and as profitably, for
                     America as the statesmen who draft treaties and the legislators who enact
                     laws.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>This faith rules our whole way of life. It decrees that we, the people, elect
                  leaders not to rule but to serve. It asserts that we have the right to choice of our
                  own
                  work and to the reward of our own toil. It inspires the initiative that makes our
                  productivity the wonder of the world. And it warns that any man who seeks to deny
                  equality among all his brothers betrays the spirit of the free and invites the mockery
                  of the tyrant.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">It is because we, all of us, hold to these principles that the
                     political changes accomplished this day do not imply turbulence, upheaval or
                     disorder. Rather this change expresses a purpose of strengthening our dedication and
                     devotion to the precepts of our founding documents, a conscious renewal of faith in
                     our country and in the watchfulness of a Divine Providence.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The enemies of this faith know no god but force, no devotion but its use. They
                  tutor men in treason. They feed upon the hunger of others. Whatever defies them, they
                  torture, especially the truth.</p>
               
               
               <p>Here, then, is joined no argument between slightly differing philosophies.<span class="unity-N"> This
                     conflict strikes directly at the faith of our fathers and the lives of our sons. No
                     principle or treasure that we hold, from the spiritual knowledge of our free schools
                     and
                     churches to the creative magic of free labor and capital, nothing lies safely beyond
                     the
                     reach of this struggle.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">Freedom is pitted against slavery; lightness against the
                     dark.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The faith we hold belongs not to us alone but to the free of all
                     the world. This common bond binds the grower of rice in Burma and the planter of
                     wheat in Iowa, the shepherd in southern Italy and the mountaineer in the Andes. It
                     confers a common dignity upon the French soldier who dies in Indo-China, the British
                     soldier killed in Malaya, the American life given in Korea.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We know, beyond this, that we are linked to all free peoples not merely by a
                  noble idea but by a simple need. No free people can for long cling to any privilege
                  or
                  enjoy any safety in economic solitude. <span class="infrastructure">For all our own material might,
                     even we need markets in the world for the surpluses of our farms and our factories.
                     Equally, we need for these same farms and factories vital materials and products of
                     distant lands.</span> This basic law of interdependence, so manifest in
                  the commerce of peace, applies with thousand-fold intensity in the event of
                  war.</p>
               
               
               <p>So we are persuaded by necessity and by belief that the strength of all free
                  peoples lies in unity; their danger, in discord.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">To produce this unity, to meet the challenge of our time, destiny
                     has laid upon our country the responsibility of the free world's
                     leadership.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>So it is proper that we assure our friends once again that, in the discharge of
                  this responsibility, we Americans know and we observe the difference between world
                  leadership and imperialism; between firmness and truculence; between a thoughtfully
                  calculated goal and spasmodic reaction to the stimulus of emergencies.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We wish our friends the world over to know this above all: we face the
                     threat—not with dread and confusion—but with confidence and
                     conviction.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We feel this moral strength because we know that we are not
                     helpless prisoners of history. We are free men. We shall remain free, never to be
                     proven guilty of the one capital offense against freedom, a lack of stanch
                     faith.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In pleading our just cause before the bar of history and in pressing our labor
                  for world peace, we shall be guided by certain fixed principles.</p>
               
               
               <p>These principles are:</p>
               
               
               <p>(1) <span class="war-P">Abhorring war as a chosen way to balk the purposes of those who
                     threaten us, we hold it to be the first task of statesmanship to develop the
                     strength that will deter the forces of aggression and promote the conditions of
                     peace. For, as it must be the supreme purpose of all free men, so it must be the
                     dedication of their leaders, to save humanity from preying upon
                     itself.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">In the light of this principle, we stand ready to engage with any and
                     all others in joint effort to remove the causes of mutual fear and distrust among
                     nations, so as to make possible drastic reduction of armaments. The sole requisites
                     for undertaking such effort are that—in their purpose—they be aimed logically and
                     honestly toward secure peace for all; and that—in their result—they provide methods
                     by which every participating nation will prove good faith in carrying out its
                     pledge.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(2) Realizing that common sense and common decency alike dictate the futility of
                  appeasement, we shall never try to placate an aggressor by the false and wicked bargain
                  of trading honor for security. Americans, indeed all free men, remember that in the
                  final choice a soldier's pack is not so heavy a burden as a prisoner's
                  chains.</p>
               
               
               <p>(3) <span class="unity-P">Knowing that only a United States that is strong and
                     immensely productive can help defend freedom in our world, we view our Nation's
                     strength and security as a trust upon which rests the hope of free men everywhere.
                     It is the firm duty of each of our free citizens and of every free citizen
                     everywhere to place the cause of his country before the comfort, the convenience of
                     himself.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(4) <span class="diplomacy">Honoring the identity and the special heritage of each nation in
                     the world, we shall never use our strength to try to impress upon another people our
                     own cherished political and economic institutions.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(5) Assessing realistically the needs and capacities of proven friends of
                  freedom, we shall strive to help them to achieve their own security and well-being.
                  Likewise, we shall count upon them to assume, within the limits of their resources,
                  their full and just burdens in the common defense of freedom.</p>
               
               
               <p>(6) <span class="economy-P">Recognizing economic health as an indispensable basis of
                     military strength and the free world's peace, we shall strive to foster everywhere,
                     and to practice ourselves, policies that encourage productivity and profitable
                     trade. For the impoverishment of any single people in the world means danger to the
                     well-being of all other peoples.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(7) <span class="diplomacy">Appreciating that economic need, military security and political
                     wisdom combine to suggest regional groupings of free peoples, we hope, within the
                     framework of the United Nations, to help strengthen such special bonds the world
                     over. The nature of these ties must vary with the different problems of different
                     areas.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">In the Western Hemisphere, we enthusiastically join with all our
                     neighbors in the work of perfecting a community of fraternal trust and common
                     purpose.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">In Europe, we ask that enlightened and inspired leaders of the Western
                     nations strive with renewed vigor to make the unity of their peoples a reality. Only
                     as free Europe unitedly marshals its strength can it effectively safeguard, even
                     with our help, its spiritual and cultural heritage.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(8) <span class="race">Conceiving the defense of freedom, like freedom itself, to be one and
                     indivisible, we hold all continents and peoples in equal regard and honor. We reject
                     any insinuation that one race or another, one people or another, is in any sense
                     inferior or expendable.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>(9) <span class="unity-P">Respecting the United Nations as the living sign of all people's hope for
                     peace, we shall strive to make it not merely an eloquent symbol but an effective force.
                     And in our quest for an honorable peace, we shall neither compromise, nor tire, nor
                     ever
                     cease.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>By these rules of conduct, we hope to be known to all peoples.</p>
               
               
               <p>By their observance, an earth of peace may become not a vision but a
                  fact.</p>
               
               
               <p>This hope—this supreme aspiration—must rule the way we live.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We must be ready to dare all for our country. For history does
                     not long entrust the care of freedom to the weak or the timid. We must acquire
                     proficiency in defense and display stamina in purpose.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We must be willing, individually and as a Nation, to accept
                     whatever sacrifices may be required of us. A people that values its privileges above
                     its principles soon loses both.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>These basic precepts are not lofty abstractions, far removed from matters of
                  daily living. They are laws of spiritual strength that generate and define our material
                  strength. <span class="unity-P">Patriotism means equipped forces and a prepared citizenry.
                     Moral stamina means more energy and more productivity, on the farm and in the
                     factory. Love of liberty means the guarding of every resource that makes freedom
                     possible—from the sanctity of our families and the wealth of our soil to the genius
                     of our scientists.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And so each citizen plays an indispensable role. The productivity
                     of our heads, our hands, and our hearts is the source of all the strength we can
                     command, for both the enrichment of our lives and the winning of the
                     peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">No person, no home, no community can be beyond the reach of this
                     call. We are summoned to act in wisdom and in conscience, to work with industry, to
                     teach with persuasion, to preach with conviction, to weigh our every deed with care
                     and with compassion. For this truth must be clear before us: whatever America hopes
                     to bring to pass in the world must first come to pass in the heart of
                     America.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The peace we seek, then, is nothing less than the practice and
                     fulfillment of our whole faith among ourselves and in our dealings with others. This
                     signifies more than the stilling of guns, easing the sorrow of war. More than escape
                     from death, it is a way of life. More than a haven for the weary, it is a hope for
                     the brave.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>This is the hope that beckons us onward in this century of trial. <span class="unity-P">This is the work that awaits us all, to be done with bravery, with charity, and
                     with prayer to Almighty God.</span></p>
               </div>
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Monday, January 21,
               1957</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p> Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Speaker, members of my
                  family and friends, my countrymen, and thea friends of my country, wherever they may
                  be,
                  we meet again, as upon a like moment four years ago, and again you have witnessed
                  my
                  solemn oath of service to you.</p>
               
               
               <p>I, too, am a witness, today testifying in your name to the principles and purposes
                  
                  to which we, as a people, are pledged.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">Before all else, we seek, upon our common labor as a nation, the
                  blessings of Almighty God.</span> And the hopes in our hearts fashion the
                  deepest prayers of our whole people.</p>
               
               
               <p>May we pursue the right—without self-righteousness.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">May we know unity—without conformity.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>May we grow in strength—without pride in self.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">May we, in our dealings with all peoples of the earth, ever speak truth and serve
                  justice.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">And so shall America—in the sight of all men of good will—prove true to the
                  honorable purposes that bind and rule us as a people in all this time of trial through
                  which we pass.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We live in a land of plenty, but rarely has this earth known such
                  peril as today.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">In our nation work and wealth abound. Our population grows. 
                  Commerce crowds our rivers and rails, our skies, harbors, and highways. Our soil is
                  fertile, our agriculture productive. The air rings with the song of our
                  industry—rolling mills and blast furnaces, dynamos, dams, and assembly lines—the
                  chorus of America the bountiful.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>This is our home—yet this is not the whole of our world.
                  For our world is where our full destiny lies—with men, of all people, and all nations,
                  who are or would be free. And for them—and so for us—this is no time of ease or of
                  rest.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">In too much of the earth there is want, discord, danger. New
                  forces and new nations stir and strive across the earth, with power to bring, by
                  their fate, great good or great evil to the free world's future. From the
                  deserts of North Africa to the islands of the South Pacific one third of all mankind
                  has
                  entered upon an historic struggle for a new freedom; freedom from grinding poverty.
                  Across all continents, nearly a billion people seek, sometimes almost in desperation,
                  for the skills and knowledge and assistance by which they may satisfy from their own
                  resources, the material wants common to all mankind.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">No nation, however old or great, escapes this tempest of change
                  and turmoil. Some, impoverished by the recent World War, seek to restore
                  their means of livelihood. In the heart of Europe, Germany still stands tragically
                  divided. So is the whole continent divided. And so, too, is all the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">The divisive force is International Communism and the power that
                  it controls.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">The designs of that power, dark in purpose, are clear in practice. It strives to
                  seal forever the fate of those it has enslaved. It strives to break the ties that
                  unite
                  the free. And it strives to capture—to exploit for its own greater power—all forces
                  of
                  change in the world, especially the needs of the hungry and the hopes of the
                  oppressed.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Yet the world of International Communism has itself been shaken by 
                  a fierce and mighty force: the readiness of men who love freedom to pledge their
                  lives to that love. Through the night of their bondage, the unconquerable
                  will of heroes has struck with the swift, sharp thrust of lightning. Budapest is no
                  longer merely the name of a city; henceforth it is a new and shining symbol of man's
                  yearning to be free.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Thus across all the globe there harshly blow the winds of change. And, we—though
                  fortunate be our lot—know that we can never turn our backs to them.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We look upon this shaken earth, and we declare our firm and fixed
                  purpose—the building of a peace with justice in a world where moral law
                  prevails.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">The building of such a peace is a bold and solemn purpose. To proclaim it is
                  easy. To serve it will be hard. And to attain it, we must be aware of its full
                  meaning—and ready to pay its full price. We know clearly what we seek,
                  and why.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">We seek peace, knowing that peace is the climate of freedom. 
                  And now, as in no other age, we seek it because we have been warned, by the power
                  
                  of modern weapons, that peace may be the only climate possible for human life
                  itself.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Yet this peace we seek cannot be born of fear alone: it must be rooted in
                  the lives of nations. There must be justice, sensed and shared by all peoples, for,
                  without justice the world can know only a tense and unstable truce. There
                  must be law, steadily invoked and respected by all nations, for without law, the world
                  promises only such meager justice as the pity of the strong upon the weak. But the
                  law
                  of which we speak, comprehending the values of freedom, affirms the equality of all
                  nations, great and small.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Splendid as can be the blessings of such a peace, high will be its cost: in toil
                  patiently sustained, in help honorably given, in sacrifice calmly borne.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We are called to meet the price of this peace.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">To counter the threat of those who seek to rule by force, we must pay the costs
                  of our own needed military strength, and help to build the security of
                  others.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We must use our skills and knowledge and, at times, our
                  substance, to help others rise from misery, however far the scene of suffering may
                  be from our shores. For wherever in the world a people knows desperate want,
                  there must appear at least the spark of hope, the hope of progress—or there will surely
                  rise at last the flames of conflict.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We recognize and accept our own deep involvement in the destiny of men
                  everywhere. We are accordingly pledged to honor, and to strive to fortify, the
                  authority of the United Nations. For in that body rests the best hope of our
                  age for the assertion of that law by which all nations may live in dignity.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">And, beyond this general resolve, we are called to act a responsible role in the
                  world's great concerns or conflicts—whether they touch upon the affairs of a vast
                  region, the fate of an island in the Pacific, or the use of a canal in the Middle
                  East.</span>
                  <span class="democracy">Only in respecting the hopes and cultures of others will we practice the equality
                     of all
                     nations.</span> <span class="diplomacy">Only as we show willingness and wisdom in giving counsel—in receiving
                        counsel—and in sharing burdens, will we wisely perform the work of peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">For one truth must rule all we think and all we do. No people can live to itself
                  alone. The unity of all who dwell in freedom is their only sure defense. The economic
                  need of all nations—in mutual dependence—makes isolation an impossibility; not even
                  America's prosperity could long survive if other nations did not also prosper. No
                  nation
                  can longer be a fortress, lone and strong and safe. And any people, seeking such shelter
                  for themselves, can now build only their own prison.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Our pledge to these principles is constant, because we believe in
                  their rightness.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We do not fear this world of change. America is no stranger to much of its
                  spirit. Everywhere we see the seeds of the same growth that America itself has known.
                  The American experiment has, for generations, fired the passion and the courage of
                  millions elsewhere seeking freedom, equality, and opportunity. And the American story
                  of
                  material progress has helped excite the longing of all needy peoples for some
                  satisfaction of their human wants. These hopes that we have helped to inspire, we
                  can
                  help to fulfill.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In this confidence, we speak plainly to all peoples.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We cherish our friendship with all nations that are or would be free. We respect,
                  no less, their independence. And when, in time of want or peril, they ask our help,
                  they
                  may honorably receive it; for we no more seek to buy their sovereignty than we would
                  sell our own. Sovereignty is never bartered among freemen.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We honor the aspirations of those nations which, now captive, long for freedom.
                  We seek neither their military alliance nor any artificial imitation of our society.
                  And
                  they can know the warmth of the welcome that awaits them when, as must be, they join
                  again the ranks of freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We honor, no less in this divided world than in a less tormented
                  time, the people of Russia.<span class="education-P"> We do not dread, rather do
                     we welcome, their progress in education and industry.</span> <span class="diplomacy">We wish them
                        success in their demands for more intellectual freedom, greater security before their
                        own laws, fuller enjoyment of the rewards of their own toil. For as such things
                        come to pass, the more certain will be the coming of that day when our peoples may
                        freely meet in friendship.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">So we voice our hope and our belief that we can help to heal this divided world.
                  Thus may the nations cease to live in trembling before the menace of force. Thus may
                  the
                  weight of fear and the weight of arms be taken from the burdened shoulders of
                  mankind</span>.</p>
               
               
               <p>This, nothing less, is the labor to which we are called and our strength
                  dedicated.</p>
               
               
               <p>And so the prayer of our people carries far beyond our own frontiers, to the wide
                  world of our duty and our destiny.</p>
               
               
               <p>May the light of freedom, coming to all darkened lands, flame brightly—until at
                  last the darkness is no more.</p>
               
               
               <p>May the turbulence of our age yield to a true time of peace, when
                  men and nations shall share a life that honors the dignity of each, the brotherhood
                  of all.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="truman_2.xhtml">Harry Truman</a></li>
            <li><a href="kennedy_1.xhtml">John Kennedy</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>