<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      <head>
            <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css" />
            <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
            <h2>Franklin D. Roosevelt Fourth Inaugural Address Saturday, January 20, 1945</h2>
            <p>Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends, you will understand and, I
                  believe, agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its
                  words brief.</p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing
                        through a period of supreme test. It is a test of our courage--of our
                        resolve--of our wisdom--our essential democracy.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">If we meet that test--successfully and honorably--we shall
                        perform a service of historic importance which men and women and children
                        will honor throughout all time.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">As I stand here today, having taken the solemn oath of office
                        in the presence of my fellow countrymen--in the presence of our God--I know
                        that it is America's purpose that we shall not fail.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">In the days and in the years that are to come we shall work for
                        a just and honorable peace, a durable peace</span>, <span class="war-P">as
                        today we work and fight for total victory in war.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can and we will achieve such a peace.</span></p>
            <p>We shall strive for perfection. We shall not achieve it immediately--but we still
                  shall strive. We may make mistakes--but they must never be mistakes which result
                  from faintness of heart or abandonment of moral principle.</p>
            <p>I remember that my old schoolmaster, Dr. Peabody, said, in days that seemed to us
                  then to be secure and untroubled: <span class="unity-P">Things in life will not
                        always run smoothly. Sometimes we will be rising toward the heights--then
                        all will seem to reverse itself and start downward. The great fact to
                        remember is that the trend of civilization itself is forever upward; that a
                        line drawn through the middle of the peaks and the valleys of the centuries
                        always has an upward trend."</span></p>
            <p><span class="race">Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not
                        perfect yet. But it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men, of
                        all races and colors and creeds, could build our solid structure of
                        democracy.</span></p>
            <p><span class="war-P">And so today, in this year of war, 1945, we have learned
                        lessons--at a fearful cost--and we shall profit by them.</span></p>
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our
                        own well-being is dependent on the well-being of other nations far
                        away.</span> We have learned that we must live as men, not as ostriches, nor
                  as dogs in the manger.</p>
            <p>We have learned to be citizens of the world, members of the human community.</p>
            <p>We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that "The only way to have a
                  friend is to be one."</p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion
                        and mistrust or with fear. We can gain it only if we proceed with the
                        understanding, the confidence, and the courage which flow from
                        conviction.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways. He has
                        given our people stout hearts and strong arms with which to strike mighty
                        blows for freedom and truth. He has given to our country a faith which has
                        become the hope of all peoples in an anguished world.</span></p>
            <p><span class="unity-P">So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly--to
                        see the way that leads to a better life for ourselves and for all our fellow
                        men--to the achievement of His will to peace on earth.</span></p>
      </body>
</html>
