<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Franklin D. Roosevelt (1933-1945)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Saturday, March 4,
               1933</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>I am certain that my fellow Americans expect that on my induction into the
                  Presidency I will address them with a candor and a decision which the present situation
                  of our Nation impels. This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole
                  truth,
                  frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country
                  today. This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper.
                  <span class="unity-N">So, first of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing
                     we have to fear is fear itself—nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which
                     paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance. In every dark hour of our
                     national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding
                     and support of the people themselves which is essential to victory. I am convinced
                     that you will again give that support to leadership in these critical
                     days.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In such a spirit on my part and on yours we face our common difficulties. They
                  concern, thank God, only material things. Values have shrunken to fantastic levels;
                  <span class="tax">taxes have risen</span>; <span class="economy-N">our ability to pay has fallen;
                     government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income</span>;
                  <span class="trade">the means of exchange are frozen in the currents of trade</span>; <span class="economy-N">the withered leaves of industrial enterprise lie on every side; farmers
                     find no markets for their produce; the savings of many years in thousands of
                     families are gone.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>More important, <span class="jobs-N">a host of unemployed citizens face the grim
                     problem of existence</span>, and an equally great number toil with little return.
                  <span class="economy-N">Only a foolish optimist can deny the dark realities of the moment</span>.</p>
               
               
               <p>Yet our distress comes from no failure of substance. We are stricken by no plague
                  of locusts. <span class="unity-P">Compared with the perils which our forefathers conquered
                     because they believed and were not afraid, we have still much to be thankful for.
                     Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts have multiplied it.</span> Plenty
                  is at our doorstep, but a generous use of it languishes in the very sight of the supply.
                  Primarily this is because the rulers of the exchange of mankind's goods have failed,
                  through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence, have admitted their failure,
                  and abdicated. <span class="criminal_justice-N">Practices of the unscrupulous money changers
                     stand indicted in the court of public opinion, rejected by the hearts and minds of
                     men.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>True they have tried, but their efforts have been cast in the pattern of an
                  outworn tradition. Faced by failure of credit they have proposed only the lending
                  of
                  more money. Stripped of the lure of profit by which to induce our people to follow
                  their
                  false leadership, they have resorted to exhortations, pleading tearfully for restored
                  confidence. They know only the rules of a generation of self-seekers. They have no
                  vision, and when there is no vision the people perish.</p>
               
               
               <p>The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our
                  civilization. We may now restore that temple to the ancient truths. The measure of
                  the
                  restoration lies in the extent to which we apply social values more noble than mere
                  monetary profit.</p>
               
               
               <p>Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of
                  achievement, in the thrill of creative effort. The joy and moral stimulation of work
                  no
                  longer must be forgotten in the mad chase of evanescent profits. <span class="unity-N">These
                     dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is
                     not to be ministered unto but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow
                     men.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes
                  hand in hand with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and high
                  political position are to be valued only by the standards of pride of place and personal
                  profit; and <span class="regulation">there must be an end to a conduct in banking and in business
                     which too often has given to a sacred trust the likeness of callous and selfish
                     wrongdoing.</span> Small wonder that confidence languishes, for it thrives
                  only on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations, on faithful protection,
                  on
                  unselfish performance; without them it cannot live.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">Restoration calls, however, not for changes in ethics alone. This
                     Nation asks for action, and action now.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="jobs-P">Our greatest primary task is to put people to work.</span> This is
                  no unsolvable problem if we face it wisely and courageously. It can be accomplished
                  in
                  part by direct recruiting by the Government itself, treating the task as we would
                  treat
                  the emergency of a war, but at the same time, through this employment, accomplishing
                  greatly needed projects to stimulate and reorganize the use of our natural
                  resources.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="infrastructure">Hand in hand with this we must frankly recognize the overbalance of population in
                     our industrial centers and, by engaging on a national scale in a redistribution,
                     endeavor to provide a better use of the land for those best fitted for the land.</span>
                  <span class="economy-N">The task can be helped by definite efforts to raise the values of
                     agricultural products and with this the power to purchase the output of our cities.
                     It can be helped by preventing realistically the tragedy of the growing loss through
                     foreclosure of our small homes and our farms. It can be helped by insistence that
                     the Federal, State, and local governments act forthwith on the demand that their
                     cost be drastically reduced. It can be helped by the unifying of relief activities
                     which today are often scattered, uneconomical, and unequal. It can be helped by
                     national planning for and supervision of all forms of transportation and of
                     communications and other utilities which have a definitely public
                     character.</span> There are many ways in which it can be helped, but it can never
                  be helped merely by talking about it. We must act and act quickly.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">Finally, in our progress toward a resumption of work we require two
                     safeguards against a return of the evils of the old order; there must be a strict
                     supervision of all banking and credits and investments; there must be an end to
                     speculation with other people's money, and there must be provision for an adequate
                     but sound currency.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="congress">There are the lines of attack. I shall presently urge upon a new
                     Congress in special session detailed measures for their fulfillment, and I shall
                     seek the immediate assistance of the several States.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Through this program of action we address ourselves to putting our own national
                  house in order and making income balance outgo. <span class="trade">Our international trade
                     relations, though vastly important, are in point of time and necessity secondary to
                     the establishment of a sound national economy. I favor as a practical policy the
                     putting of first things first. I shall spare no effort to restore world trade by
                     international economic readjustment, but the emergency at home cannot wait on that
                     accomplishment.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The basic thought that guides these specific means of national recovery is not
                  narrowly nationalistic. It is the insistence, as a first consideration, upon the
                  interdependence of the various elements in all parts of the United States—a recognition
                  of the old and permanently important manifestation of the American spirit of the
                  pioneer. It is the way to recovery. It is the immediate way. It is the strongest
                  assurance that the recovery will endure.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">In the field of world policy I would dedicate this Nation to the
                     policy of the good neighbor—the neighbor who resolutely respects himself and,
                     because he does so, respects the rights of others—the neighbor who respects his
                     obligations and respects the sanctity of his agreements in and with a world of
                     neighbors.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>If I read the temper of our people correctly, we now realize as we have never
                  realized before our interdependence on each other; that we can not merely take but
                  we
                  must give as well; that if we are to go forward, <span class="war-P">we must move as a trained
                     and loyal army willing to sacrifice for the good of a common discipline, because
                     without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership becomes effective. We
                     are, I know, ready and willing to submit our lives and property to such discipline,
                     because it makes possible a leadership which aims at a larger good. This I propose
                     to offer, pledging that the larger purposes will bind upon us all as a sacred
                     obligation with a unity of duty hitherto evoked only in time of armed
                     strife.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">With this pledge taken, I assume unhesitatingly the leadership of
                     this great army of our people dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common
                     problems.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government
                  which we have inherited from our ancestors. <span class="democracy">Our Constitution is so simple and
                     practical that it is possible always to meet extraordinary needs by changes in
                     emphasis and arrangement without loss of essential form. That is why our
                     constitutional system has proved itself the most superbly enduring political
                     mechanism the modern world has produced.</span> It has met every stress of vast
                  expansion of territory, of foreign wars, of bitter internal strife, of world
                  relations.</p>
               
               
               <p>It is to be hoped that the normal balance of executive and legislative authority
                  may be wholly adequate to meet the unprecedented task before us. But it may be that
                  an
                  unprecedented demand and need for undelayed action may call for temporary departure
                  from
                  that normal balance of public procedure.</p>
               
               
               <p>I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a
                  stricken nation in the midst of a stricken world may require. <span class="congress">These measures,
                     or such other measures as the Congress may build out of its experience and wisdom,
                     I
                     shall seek, within my constitutional authority, to bring to speedy
                     adoption.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="congress">But in the event that the Congress shall fail to take one of these two
                     courses, and in the event that the national emergency is still critical, I shall not
                     evade the clear course of duty that will then confront me. I shall ask the Congress
                     for the one remaining instrument to meet the crisis</span>—<span class="war-P">broad
                     Executive power to wage a war against the emergency, as great as the power that
                     would be given to me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>For the trust reposed in me I will return the courage and the devotion that befit
                  the time. I can do no less.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We face the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage
                     of the national unity; with the clear consciousness of seeking old and precious
                     moral values; with the clean satisfaction that comes from the stern performance of
                     duty by old and young alike. We aim at the assurance of a rounded and permanent
                     national life.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We do not distrust the future of essential democracy.</span> The
                  people of the United States have not failed. In their need they have registered a
                  mandate that they want direct, vigorous action. They have asked for discipline and
                  direction under leadership. They have made me the present instrument of their wishes.
                  In
                  the spirit of the gift I take it.</p>
               
               
               <p>In this dedication of a Nation we humbly ask the blessing of God. May He protect
                  each and every one of us. May He guide me in the days to come.</p>
               </div>
         
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Wednesday, January 20, 1937</button>
            <div class="content">
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">WHEN four years ago we met to
               inaugurate a President, the Republic, single-minded in anxiety, stood in spirit here.
               We
               dedicated ourselves to the fulfillment of a vision—to speed the time when there would
               be
               for all the people that security and peace essential to the pursuit of happiness.
               We of
               the Republic pledged ourselves to drive from the temple of our ancient faith those
               who
               had profaned it; to end by action, tireless and unafraid, the stagnation and despair
               of
               that day. We did those first things first.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Our covenant with ourselves did not stop there. Instinctively we recognized a
               deeper need—the need to find through government the instrument of our united purpose
               to
               solve for the individual the ever-rising problems of a complex civilization.</span> <span class="regulation">Repeated
                  attempts at their solution without the aid of government had left us baffled and
                  bewildered. For, without that aid, we had been unable to create those moral controls
                  over the services of science which are necessary to make science a useful servant
                  instead of a ruthless master of mankind. To do this we knew that we must find practical
                  controls over blind economic forces and blindly selfish men.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="regulation">We of the Republic sensed the truth that democratic government has innate
               capacity to protect its people against disasters once considered inevitable, to solve
               problems once considered unsolvable. We would not admit that we could not find a way
               to
               master economic epidemics just as, after centuries of fatalistic suffering, we had
               found
               a way to master epidemics of disease. We refused to leave the problems of our common
               welfare to be solved by the winds of chance and the hurricanes of disaster.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>In this we Americans were discovering no wholly new truth; we were writing a new
               chapter in our book of self-government.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Constitutional
               Convention which made us a nation. At that Convention our forefathers found the way
               out
               of the chaos which followed the Revolutionary War; they created a strong government
               with
               powers of united action sufficient then and now to solve problems utterly beyond
               individual or local solution. A century and a half ago they established the Federal
               Government in order to promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty
               to the American people.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Today we invoke those same powers of government to achieve the same
               objectives.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Four years of new experience have not belied our historic instinct. They hold out
               the clear hope that government within communities, government within the separate
               States, and government of the United States can do the things the times require, without
               yielding its democracy. Our tasks in the last four years did not force democracy to
               take
               a holiday.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">Nearly all of us recognize that as intricacies of human relationships increase,
               so power to govern them also must increase—power to stop evil; power to do good. The
               essential democracy of our Nation and the safety of our people depend not upon the
               absence of power, but upon lodging it with those whom the people can change or continue
               at stated intervals through an honest and free system of elections. The Constitution
               of
               1787 did not make our democracy impotent.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="regulation">In fact, in these last four years, we have made the exercise of all power more
               democratic; for we have begun to bring private autocratic powers into their proper
               subordination to the public's government. The legend that they were invincible—above
               and
               beyond the processes of a democracy—has been shattered. They have been challenged
               and
               beaten.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">Our progress out of the depression is obvious. But that is not all that you and I
               mean by the new order of things. Our pledge was not merely to do a patchwork job with
               secondhand materials. By using the new materials of social justice we have undertaken
               to
               erect on the old foundations a more enduring structure for the better use of future
               generations.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">In that purpose we have been helped by achievements of mind and spirit. Old
               truths have been relearned; untruths have been unlearned. We have always known that
               heedless self-interest was bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics. Out of
               the
               collapse of a prosperity whose builders boasted their practicality has come the
               conviction that in the long run economic morality pays. We are beginning to wipe out
               the
               line that divides the practical from the ideal; and in so doing we are fashioning
               an
               instrument of unimagined power for the establishment of a morally better
               world.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>This new understanding undermines the old admiration of worldly success as such.
               We are beginning to abandon our tolerance of the abuse of power by those who betray
               for
               profit the elementary decencies of life.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">In this process evil things formerly accepted will not be so easily condoned.
               Hard-headedness will not so easily excuse hardheartedness. We are moving toward an
               era
               of good feeling. But we realize that there can be no era of good feeling save among
               men
               of good will.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>For these reasons I am justified in believing that the greatest change we have
               witnessed has been the change in the moral climate of America.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Among men of good will, science and democracy together offer an ever-richer life
               and ever-larger satisfaction to the individual.</span> <span class="economy-P">With this change in our moral climate
                  and our rediscovered ability to improve our economic order, we have set our feet upon
                  the road of enduring progress.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Shall we pause now and turn our back upon the road that lies ahead? Shall we call
               this the promised land? Or, shall we continue on our way? For "each age is a dream
               that
               is dying, or one that is coming to birth."</p>
            
            
            <p>Many voices are heard as we face a great decision. Comfort says, "Tarry a while."
               Opportunism says, "This is a good spot." Timidity asks, "How difficult is the road
               ahead?"</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-P">True, we have come far from the days of stagnation and despair. Vitality has been
               preserved. Courage and confidence have been restored. Mental and moral horizons have
               been extended.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">But our present gains were won under the pressure of more than ordinary
               circumstances. Advance became imperative under the goad of fear and suffering. The
               times
               were on the side of progress.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">To hold to progress today, however, is more difficult. Dulled conscience,
               irresponsibility, and ruthless self-interest already reappear. Such symptoms of
               prosperity may become portents of disaster! Prosperity already tests the persistence
               of
               our progressive purpose.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>Let us ask again: Have we reached the goal of our vision of that fourth day of
               March 1933? Have we found our happy valley?</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">I see a great nation, upon a great continent, blessed with a great wealth of
               natural resources. Its hundred and thirty million people are at peace among themselves;
               they are making their country a good neighbor among the nations.</span> <span class="economy-N">I see a United States
                  which can demonstrate that, under democratic methods of government, national wealth
                  can
                  be translated into a spreading volume of human comforts hitherto unknown, and the
                  lowest
                  standard of living can be raised far above the level of mere subsistence.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">But here is the challenge to our democracy: In this nation I see tens of millions
               of its citizens—a substantial part of its whole population—who at this very moment
               are
               denied the greater part of what the very lowest standards of today call the necessities
               of life.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">I see millions of families trying to live on incomes so meager that the pall of
               family disaster hangs over them day by day.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">I see millions whose daily lives in city and on farm continue under conditions
               labeled indecent by a so-called polite society half a century ago.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="education-N">I see millions denied education, recreation, and the opportunity to better their
               lot and the lot of their children.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">I see millions lacking the means to buy the products of farm and factory and by
               their poverty denying work and productiveness to many other millions</span>.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">I see one-third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-nourished.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">It is not in despair that I paint you that picture. I paint it for you in
               hope—because the Nation, seeing and understanding the injustice in it, proposes to
               paint
               it out. We are determined to make every American citizen the subject of his country's
               interest and concern; and we will never regard any faithful law-abiding group within
               our
               borders as superfluous. The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the
               abundance of those who have much; it is whether we provide enough for those who have
               too
               little.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>If I know aught of the spirit and purpose of our Nation, we will not listen to
               Comfort, Opportunism, and Timidity. We will carry on.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Overwhelmingly, we of the Republic are men and women of good will; men and women
               who have more than warm hearts of dedication; men and women who have cool heads and
               willing hands of practical purpose as well. They will insist that every agency of
               popular government use effective instruments to carry out their will.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Government is competent when all who compose it work as trustees for the whole
               people. It can make constant progress when it keeps abreast of all the facts. It can
               obtain justified support and legitimate criticism when the people receive true
               information of all that government does.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">If I know aught of the will of our people, they will demand that these conditions
               of effective government shall be created and maintained. They will demand a nation
               uncorrupted by cancers of injustice and, therefore, strong among the nations in its
               example of the will to peace.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Today we reconsecrate our country to long-cherished ideals in a suddenly changed
               civilization. In every land there are always at work forces that drive men apart and
               forces that draw men together. In our personal ambitions we are individualists. But
               in
               our seeking for economic and political progress as a nation, we all go up, or else
               we
               all go down, as one people.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">To maintain a democracy of effort requires a vast amount of patience in dealing
               with differing methods, a vast amount of humility. But out of the confusion of many
               voices rises an understanding of dominant public need. Then political leadership can
               voice common ideals, and aid in their realization.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>In taking again the oath of office as President of the United States, I assume
               the solemn obligation of leading the American people forward along the road over which
               they have chosen to advance.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">While this duty rests upon me I shall do my utmost to speak their purpose and to
               do their will, seeking Divine guidance to help us each and every one to give light
               to
               them that sit in darkness and to guide our feet into the way of
               peace.</span></p>
         </div>
            
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Third Inaugural Address: Monday, January 20,
               1941</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>ON each national day of inauguration since 1789, the people have renewed their
                  sense of dedication to the United States.</p>
               
               
               <p>In Washington's day the task of the people was to create and weld together a
                  nation.</p>
               
               
               <p>In Lincoln's day the task of the people was to preserve that Nation from
                  disruption from within.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">In this day the task of the people is to save that Nation and its institutions
                  from disruption from without.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>To us there has come a time, in the midst of swift happenings, to pause for a
                  moment and take stock--to recall what our place in history has been, and to rediscover
                  what we are and what we may be. If we do not, we risk the real peril of
                  inaction.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Lives of nations are determined not by the count of years, but by the lifetime of
                  the human spirit. The life of a man is three-score years and ten: a little more, a
                  little less. The life of a nation is the fullness of the measure of its will to
                  live.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">There are men who doubt this. There are men who believe that democracy, as a form
                  of Government and a frame of life, is limited or measured by a kind of mystical and
                  artificial fate that, for some unexplained reason, tyranny and slavery have become
                  the
                  surging wave of the future--and that freedom is an ebbing tide.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>But we Americans know that this is not true.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Eight years ago, when the life of this Republic seemed frozen by a fatalistic
                  terror, we proved that this is not true. We were in the midst of shock--but we acted.
                  We
                  acted quickly, boldly, decisively.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">These later years have been living years--fruitful years for the people of this
                  democracy. For they have brought to us greater security and, I hope, a better
                  understanding that life's ideals are to be measured in other than material things.</span> <span class="democracy">Most
                     vital to our present and our future is this experience of a democracy which successfully
                     survived crisis at home; put away many evil things; built new structures on enduring
                     lines; and, through it all, maintained the fact of its democracy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">For action has been taken within the three-way framework of the Constitution of
                  the United States. The coordinate branches of the Government continue freely to
                  function. The Bill of Rights remains inviolate. The freedom of elections is wholly
                  maintained. Prophets of the downfall of American democracy have seen their dire
                  predictions come to naught.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Democracy is not dying.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We know it because we have seen it revive--and grow.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We know it cannot die--because it is built on the unhampered initiative of
                  individual men and women joined together in a common enterprise--an enterprise
                  undertaken and carried through by the free expression of a free majority.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We know it because democracy alone, of all forms of government, enlists the full
                  force of men's enlightened will.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We know it because democracy alone has constructed an unlimited civilization
                  capable of infinite progress in the improvement of human life.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We know it because, if we look below the surface, we sense it still spreading on
                  every continent--for it is the most humane, the most advanced, and in the end the
                  most
                  unconquerable of all forms of human society.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">A nation, like a person, has a body--a body that must be fed and clothed and
                  housed, invigorated and rested, in a manner that measures up to the objectives of
                  our
                  time.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">A nation, like a person, has a mind--a mind that must be kept informed and alert,
                  that must know itself, that understands the hopes and the needs of its neighbors--all
                  the other nations that live within the narrowing circle of the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And a nation, like a person, has something deeper, something more permanent,
                  something larger than the sum of all its parts. It is that something which matters
                  most
                  to its future--which calls forth the most sacred guarding of its present.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>It is a thing for which we find it difficult--even impossible--to hit upon a
                  single, simple word.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And yet we all understand what it is--the spirit--the faith of America. It is the
                  product of centuries. It was born in the multitudes of those who came from many
                  lands--some of high degree, but mostly plain people, who sought here, early and late,
                  to
                  find freedom more freely.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase in human history. It is human
                  history. It permeated the ancient life of early peoples. It blazed anew in the middle
                  ages. It was written in Magna Charta.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">In the Americas its impact has been irresistible. America has been the New World
                  in all tongues, to all peoples, not because this continent was a new-found land, but
                  because all those who came here believed they could create upon this continent a new
                  life--a life that should be new in freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Its vitality was written into our own Mayflower Compact, into the Declaration of
                  Independence, into the Constitution of the United States, into the Gettysburg
                  Address.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Those who first came here to carry out the longings of their spirit, and the
                  millions who followed, and the stock that sprang from them--all have moved forward
                  constantly and consistently toward an ideal which in itself has gained stature and
                  clarity with each generation.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The hopes of the Republic cannot forever tolerate either undeserved poverty or
                  self-serving wealth.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">We know that we still have far to go; that we must more greatly build the
                  security and the opportunity and the knowledge of every citizen, in the measure
                  justified by the resources and the capacity of the land.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>But it is not enough to achieve these purposes alone. It is not enough to clothe
                  and feed the body of this Nation, and instruct and inform its mind. For there is also
                  the spirit. And of the three, the greatest is the spirit.</p>
               
               
               <p>Without the body and the mind, as all men know, the Nation could not
                  live.</p>
               
               
               <p>But if the spirit of America were killed, even though the Nation's body and mind,
                  constricted in an alien world, lived on, the America we know would have
                  perished.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">That spirit--that faith--speaks to us in our daily lives in ways often unnoticed,
                  because they seem so obvious. It speaks to us here in the Capital of the Nation. It
                  speaks to us through the processes of governing in the sovereignties of 48 States.
                  It
                  speaks to us in our counties, in our cities, in our towns, and in our villages. It
                  speaks to us from the other nations of the hemisphere, and from those across the
                  seas--the enslaved, as well as the free. Sometimes we fail to hear or heed these voices
                  of freedom because to us the privilege of our freedom is such an old, old
                  story.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The destiny of America was proclaimed in words of prophecy spoken by our first
                  President in his first inaugural in 1789--words almost directed, it would seem, to
                  this
                  year of 1941: "The preservation of the sacred fire of liberty and the destiny of the
                  republican model of government are justly considered... deeply,... finally, staked
                  on
                  the experiment intrusted to the hands of the American people."</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">If we lose that sacred fire--if we let it be smothered with doubt and fear--then
                  we shall reject the destiny which Washington strove so valiantly and so triumphantly
                  to
                  establish. The preservation of the spirit and faith of the Nation does, and will,
                  furnish the highest justification for every sacrifice that we may make in the cause
                  of
                  national defense.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">In the face of great perils never before encountered, our strong purpose is to
                  protect and to perpetuate the integrity of democracy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>For this we muster the spirit of America, and the faith of America.</p>
               
               
               <p>We do not retreat. We are not content to stand still. As Americans, we go
                  forward, in the service of our country, by the will of God.</p>
            </div>
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Fourth Inaugural Address: Saturday, January 20,
               1945</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends, you will understand and, I
                  believe, agree with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words
                  brief.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing through a period of
                  supreme test. It is a test of our courage--of our resolve--of our wisdom--our essential
                  democracy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">If we meet that test--successfully and honorably--we shall perform a service of
                  historic importance which men and women and children will honor throughout all
                  time.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">As I stand here today, having taken the solemn oath of office in the presence of
                  my fellow countrymen--in the presence of our God--I know that it is America's purpose
                  that we shall not fail.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">In the days and in the years that are to come we shall work for a just and
                  honorable peace, a durable peace</span>, <span class="war-P">as today we work and fight for total victory in
                     war.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We can and we will achieve such a peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We shall strive for perfection. We shall not achieve it immediately--but we still
                  shall strive. We may make mistakes--but they must never be mistakes which result from
                  faintness of heart or abandonment of moral principle.</p>
               
               
               <p>I remember that my old schoolmaster, Dr. Peabody, said, in days that seemed to us
                  then to be secure and untroubled: <span class="unity-P">Things in life will not always run smoothly.
                     Sometimes we will be rising toward the heights--then all will seem to reverse itself
                     and
                     start downward. The great fact to remember is that the trend of civilization itself
                     is
                     forever upward; that a line drawn through the middle of the peaks and the valleys
                     of the
                     centuries always has an upward trend."</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not perfect yet. But
                  it provided a firm base upon which all manner of men, of all races and colors and
                  creeds, could build our solid structure of democracy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">And so today, in this year of war, 1945, we have learned lessons--at a fearful
                  cost--and we shall profit by them.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our own well-being is
                  dependent on the well-being of other nations far away.</span> We have learned that we must live
                  as men, not as ostriches, nor as dogs in the manger.</p>
               
               
               <p>We have learned to be citizens of the world, members of the human
                  community.</p>
               
               
               <p>We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that "The only way to have a
                  friend is to be one."</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion and mistrust or
                  with fear. We can gain it only if we proceed with the understanding, the confidence,
                  and
                  the courage which flow from conviction.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways. He has given our people stout
                  hearts and strong arms with which to strike mighty blows for freedom and truth. He
                  has
                  given to our country a faith which has become the hope of all peoples in an anguished
                  world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly--to see the way that
                  leads to a better life for ourselves and for all our fellow men--to the achievement
                  of
                  His will to peace on earth.</span></p>
            </div>
         </div>
            <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      
      </div>
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="hoover_1.xhtml">Herbert Hoover</a></li>
            <li><a href="truman_2.xhtml">Harry Truman</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>