<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      <head>
            <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css" />
            <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
            <h2>George H.W. Bush Inaugural Address Friday, January 20, 1989</h2>
            <div id="speech">

                  <p>Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. President, Vice President QuAYLE, Senator MITCHELL,
                        Speaker WRIGHT, Senator DoLE, Congressman MICHEL, and fellow citizens,
                        neighbors, and friends.</p>


                  <p>
                        <span class="pred-P">There is a man here who has earned a lasting place in
                              our hearts-and in our history. President Reagan, on behalf of our
                              Nation, I thank you for the wonderful things that you have done for
                              America.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P"> I have just repeated, word for word, the oath taken by
                              George Washington 200 years ago; and the Bible on which I placed my
                              hand is the Bible on which he placed his.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">It is right that the memory of Washington be with us
                              today, not only because this is our Bicentennial Inauguration, but
                              because Washington remains the Father of our Country. And he would, I
                              think, be gladdened by this day; for today is the concrete expression
                              of a stunning fact: our continuity these 200 years since our
                              government began.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">We meet on democracy's front porch, a good place to talk
                              as neighbors and as friends. For this is a day when our Nation is made
                              whole, when our differences for a moment are suspended.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy">And my first act as president is a prayer. I ask you to
                              bow your heads:</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy">Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and thank You for Your
                              love. Accept our thanks for the peace that yields this day and the
                              shared faith that makes its continuance likely. Male us strong to do
                              Your work, willing to heed and hear Your will, and write on our hearts
                              these words, "Use power to help people." For we are given power not to
                              advance our own purposes, nor to make a great show in your name. There
                              is but one jusr use of power, and it is to serve people. Help us to
                              remember it, Lord. Amen.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">I come before you and assume the Presidency at a moment
                              rich with promise. We live in a peaceful, prosperous time, but we can
                              make it better.</span>
                        <span class="democracy">For a new breeze is blowing, and a world refreshed
                              by freedom seems reborn; for in a man's heart, if not in fact, the day
                              of the dictator is over.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">The totalitarian era is passing, its old ideas blown
                              away like leaves from an ancient, lifeless tree.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">A new breeze is blowing-and a nation refreshed by
                              freedom stands ready to push on: There is new ground to be broken, and
                              new action to be taken.</span></p>


                  <p>There are times when the future seems thick as a fog; you sit and wait, hoping
                        the mists will lift and reveal the right path.</p>


                  <p>But this is a time when the future seems a door you can walk right through-into
                        a room called tomorrow.</p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Great nations of the world are moving toward
                              democracy-through the door to freedom.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="trade">Men and women of the world move towards free
                              markets-through the door to prosperity.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">The people of the world agitate for free expression and
                              free thought-through the door to the moral and intellectual
                              satisfactions that only liberty allows.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">We know what works: Freedom works. We know what's
                              right: Freedom is right. We know how to secure a more just and
                              prosperous life for man on Earth: through free markets, free speech,
                              free elections, and the exercise of free will unhampered by the
                              state.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">For the first time in this century-for the firdt time
                              in perhaps all history-man does not have to invent a system by which
                              to live. We don't have to talk late into the night about which form of
                              government is better. We don't have to wrestle justice from the kings.
                              We only have to summon it from within ourselves.</span></p>


                  <p>We must act on what we know. I take as my guide the hope of a saint: In crucial
                        things, unity; in important things, diversity; in all things,
                        generosity.</p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">America today is a proud, free Nation, decent and civil-a
                              place we cannot help but love. We know in our hearts, not loudly and
                              proudly, but as a simple fact, that this country has meaning beyond
                              what we see, and that our strength is a force for good.</span></p>


                  <p>But have we changed as a nation even in our time? Are we enthralled with
                        material things, less appreciative of the nobility of work and
                        sacrifice?</p>


                  <p><span class="unity-N">My friends, we are not the sum of our possessions. They
                              are not the measure of our lives. In our hearts we know what matters.
                              We cannot hope to leave our children a bigger car, a bigger bank
                              account. We must hope to give them a sense of what it means to be a
                              loyal friend, a loving parent, a citizen who leaves his home, his
                              neighborhood, and town better than he found it.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-N">What do we want the men and women who with with us to say
                              when we are no longer there? That we were more driven to succeed than
                              anyone around us? Or that we stopped to ask if a sick child had gotten
                              better, and stayed a moment there to trade a word of
                              friendship?</span></p>


                  <p>No president, no government, can teach us to remember what is best in what we
                        are. But if the man you have chosen to lead this government can help make a
                        difference; if he can celebrate the quieter, deeper successes that are made
                        not of gold and silk, but of better hearts and finer souls; if he can do
                        these things, then he must.</p>


                  <p>America is never wholly herself unless she is engaged in high morale principle.
                        We as a people have such a purpose today. It is to make kinder the face of
                        the Nation and gentler the face of the world.</p>


                  <p>My friends, we have work to do.</p>


                  <p>There are the homeless, lost and roaming; there are the children who have
                        nothing, no love, no normalcy; <span class="criminal_justice-N">there are
                              those who cannot free themselves of enslavement to whatever
                              addiction-drugs, welfare, the demoralization that rules the slums.
                              There is crime to be conquered, the rough crime of the streets.</span>
                        <span class="education-N">There are young women to be helped who are about
                              to become mothers of children they can't care for and might not love.
                              They need our care, our guidance, and our education;</span> though we
                        bless them for choosing life.</p>


                  <p><span class="economy-N">The old solution, the old way, was to think that public
                              money alone could end these problems. But we have learned that is not
                              so. And in any case, our funds are low. We have a deficit to bring
                              down.</span>
                        <span class="regulation">We have more will than wallet; but will is what we
                              need. We will make the hard choices, looking at what we have and
                              perhaps allocating it differently, making our decisions based on
                              honest need and prudent safety.</span> And then we will do the wisest
                        thing of all: <span class="unity-P">We will turn to the only resource we
                              have that in times of need always grows--the goodness and the courage
                              of the American people.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">I am speaking of a new engagement in the lives of others,
                              a new activism, hands-on and involved, that gets the job done. We must
                              bring in the generations, harnessing the unused talent of the elderly
                              and the unfocused energy of the young. For not only leadership is
                              passed from generation to generation, but so is stewardship. And the
                              generation born after the Second World War has come of age.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">I have spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the
                              community organizations that are spread like stars throughout the
                              Nation, doing good. We will work hand in hand, encouraging, sometimes
                              leading, sometimes being led, rewarding. We will work on this in the
                              White House, in the Cabinet agencies. I will go to the people and the
                              programs that are the brighter points of light, and I will ask every
                              member of my government to become involved. The old ideas are new
                              again because they are not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice,
                              commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part
                              and pitching in.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="congress-">We need a new engagement, too, between the Executive
                              and the Congress. The challenges before us will be thrashed out with
                              the House and the Senate.</span>
                        <span class="economy-N">We must bring the Federal budget into
                              balance.</span>
                        <span class="unity-N">And we must ensure that America stands before the
                              world united, strong, at peace, and fiscally sound. But, of course,
                              things may be difficult. We need compromise; we have had dissension.
                              We need harmony; we have had a chorus of discordant voices.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="congress-">For Congress, too, has changed in our time. There has
                              grown a certain divisiveness. We have seen the hard looks and heard
                              the statements in which not each other's ideas are challenged, but
                              each other's motives.</span>
                        <span class="unity-N">And our great parties have too often been far apart
                              and untrusting of each other. It has been this way since Vietnam. That
                              war cleaves us still. But, friends, that war began in earnest a
                              quarter of a century ago; and surely the statute of limitations has
                              been reached. This is a fact: The final lesson of Vietnam is that no
                              great nation can long afford to be sundered by a memory. A new breeze
                              is blowing, and the old bipartisanship must be made new
                        again.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-N">To my friends--and yes, I do mean friends--in the loyal
                              opposition--and yes, I mean loyal: I put out my hand. I am putting out
                              my hand to you, Mr. Speaker. I am putting out my hand to you Mr.
                              Majority Leader. For this is the thing: This is the age of the offered
                              hand. We can't turn back clocks, and I don't want to. But when our
                              fathers were young, Mr. Speaker, our differences ended at the water's
                              edge. And we don't wish to turn back time, but when our mothers were
                              young, Mr. Majority Leader, the Congress and the Executive were
                              capable of working together to produce a budget on which this nation
                              could live. Let us negotiate soon and hard. But in the end, let us
                              produce. The American people await action. They didn't send us here to
                              bicker. They ask us to rise above the merely partisan. "In crucial
                              things, unity"--and this, my friends, is crucial.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">To the world, too, we offer new engagement and a
                              renewed vow: We will stay strong to protect the peace. The "offered
                              hand" is a reluctant fist; but once made, strong, and can be used with
                              great effect. There are today Americans who are held against their
                              will in foreign lands, and Americans who are unaccounted for.
                              Assistance can be shown here, and will be long remembered. Good will
                              begets good will. Good faith can be a spiral that endlessly moves
                              on.</span></p>


                  <p>Great nations like great men must keep their word. When America says something,
                        America means it, whether a treaty or an agreement or a vow made on marble
                        steps. We will always try to speak clearly, for candor is a compliment, but
                        subtlety, too, is good and has its place. <span class="diplomacy">While
                              keeping our alliances and friendships around the world strong, ever
                              strong, we will continue the new closeness with the Soviet Union,
                              consistent both with our security and with progress. One might say
                              that our new relationship in part reflects the triumph of hope and
                              strength over experience. But hope is good, and so are strength and
                              vigilance.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">Here today are tens of thousands of our citizens who feel
                              the understandable satisfaction of those who have taken part in
                              democracy and seen their hopes fulfilled. But my thoughts have been
                              turning the past few days to those who would be watching at home, to
                              an older fellow who will throw a salute by himself when the flag goes
                              by, and the women who will tell her sons the words of the battle
                              hymns. I don't mean this to be sentimental. I mean that on days like
                              this, we remember that we are all part of a continuum, inescapably
                              connected by the ties that bind.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Our children are watching in schools throughout our
                              great land. And to them I say, thank you for watching democracy's big
                              day. For democracy belongs to us all, and freedom is like a beautiful
                              kite that can go higher and higher with the breeze. And to all I say:
                              No matter what your circumstances or where you are, you are part of
                              this day, you are part of the life of our great nation.</span></p>


                  <p>A President is neither prince nor pope, and I don't seek a window on men's
                        souls. In fact, I yearn for a greater tolerance, an easy-goingness about
                        each other's attitudes and way of life.</p>


                  <p><span class="criminal_justice-N">There are few clear areas in which we as a
                              society must rise up united and express our intolerance. The most
                              obvious now is drugs. And when that first cocaine was smuggled in on a
                              ship, it may as well have been a deadly bacteria, so much has it hurt
                              the body, the soul of our country. And there is much to be done and to
                              be said, but take my word for it: This scourge will stop.</span></p>


                  <p>And so, there is much to do; and tomorrow the work begins. I do not mistrust
                        the future; I do not fear what is ahead. For our problems are large, but our
                        heart is larger. Our challenges are great, but our will is greater. <span
                              class="economy">And if our flaws are endless, God's love is truly
                              boundless.</span></p>


                  <p>Some see leadership as high drama, and the sound of trumpets calling, and
                        sometimes it is that. But I see history as a book with many pages, and each
                        day we fill a page with acts of hopefulness and meaning. The new breeze
                        blows, a page turns, the story unfolds. And so today a chapter begins, a
                        small and stately story of unity, diversity, and generosity--shared, and
                        written, together.</p>


                  <p>Thank you. God bless you and God bless the United States of America.</p>

                  <div id="buttons"></div>
            </div>
            <script>
            const button = document.createElement('button');
            button.innerText = 'Ronald Reagan';
            button.id = 'ReaganButton';
            button.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "reagan_1.xhtml"
            });
            button.style.marginLeft = '1%';
            button.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button);
            
            const button1 = document.createElement('button');
            button1.innerText = 'William J. Clinton';
            button1.id = 'ClintonButton';
            button1.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "clinton_1.xhtml"
            });
            button1.style.marginLeft = '84%';
            button1.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button1);</script>
      </body>
</html>
