<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>John F. Kennedy Inaugural Address Friday, January 20,
         1961</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            
            <p>Vice President Johnson, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, President Eisenhower,
               Vice President Nixon, President Truman, reverend clergy, fellow citizens, we observe
               today not a victory of party, but a celebration of freedom--symbolizing an end, as
               well
               as a beginning--signifying renewal, as well as change. For I have sworn before you
               and
               Almighty God the same solemn oath our forebears prescribed nearly a century and three
               quarters ago.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">The world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal hands the
                  power to abolish all forms of human poverty and all forms of human life. And yet the
                  same revolutionary beliefs for which our forebears fought are still at issue around
                  the globe--the belief that the rights of man come not from the generosity of the
                  state,</span><span class="religion">but from the hand of God.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="democracy">We dare not forget today that we are the heirs of that first
                  revolution. Let the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike,
                  that the torch has been passed to a new generation of Americans--born in this
                  century, tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter peace, proud of our
                  ancient heritage--and unwilling to witness or permit the slow undoing of those human
                  rights to which this Nation has always been committed, and to which we are committed
                  today at home and around the world.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we
                  shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose
                  any foe, in order to assure the survival and the success of
                  liberty.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>This much we pledge--and more.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To those old allies whose cultural and spiritual origins we share, we
                  pledge the loyalty of faithful friends. United, there is little we cannot do in a
                  host of cooperative ventures. Divided, there is little we can do--for we dare not
                  meet a powerful challenge at odds and split asunder.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To those new States whom we welcome to the ranks of the free, we
                  pledge our word that one form of colonial control shall not have passed away merely
                  to be replaced by a far more iron tyranny. We shall not always expect to find them
                  supporting our view.</span><span class="democracy">But we shall always hope to find them
                  strongly supporting their own freedom</span>--and to remember that, in the
               past, those who foolishly sought power by riding the back of the tiger ended up
               inside.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To those peoples in the huts and villages across the globe struggling
                  to break the bonds of mass misery, we pledge our best efforts to help them help
                  themselves, for whatever period is required--not because the Communists may be doing
                  it, not because we seek their votes, but because it is right. If a free society
                  cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are
                  rich.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To our sister republics south of our border, we offer a special
                  pledge--to convert our good words into good deeds--in a new alliance for
                  progress--to assist free men and free governments in casting off the chains of
                  poverty.</span><span class="war-P">But this peaceful revolution of hope cannot become
                  the prey of hostile powers. Let all our neighbors know that we shall join with them
                  to oppose aggression or subversion anywhere in the Americas. And let every other
                  power know that this Hemisphere intends to remain the master of its own
                  house.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">To that world assembly of sovereign states, the United Nations, our
                  last best hope in an age where the instruments of war have far outpaced the
                  instruments of peace, we renew our pledge of support--to prevent it from becoming
                  merely a forum for invective--to strengthen its shield of the new and the weak--and
                  to enlarge the area in which its writ may run.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">Finally, to those nations who would make themselves our adversary,
                  we offer not a pledge but a request: that both sides begin anew the quest for peace,
                  before the dark powers of destruction unleashed by science engulf all humanity in
                  planned or accidental self-destruction.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">We dare not tempt them with weakness. For only when our arms are
                  sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain beyond doubt that they will never be
                  employed.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">But neither can two great and powerful groups of nations take
                  comfort from our present course--both sides overburdened by the cost of modern
                  weapons, both rightly alarmed by the steady spread of the deadly atom, yet both
                  racing to alter that uncertain balance of terror that stays the hand of mankind's
                  final war.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">So let us begin anew--remembering on both sides that civility is
                  not a sign of weakness, and sincerity is always subject to proof. Let us never
                  negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Let both sides explore what problems unite us instead of belaboring
                  those problems which divide us.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Let both sides, for the first time, formulate serious and precise
                  proposals for the inspection and control of arms--and bring the absolute power to
                  destroy other nations under the absolute control of all
                  nations.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its
                  terrors. Together let us explore the stars, conquer the deserts, eradicate disease,
                  tap the ocean depths, and encourage the arts and commerce.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Let both sides unite</span><span class="democracy">to heed in all corners of
                  the earth the command of Isaiah--to "undo the heavy burdens...and to let the
                  oppressed go free."</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">And if a beachhead of cooperation may push back the jungle of
                  suspicion, let both sides join in creating a new endeavor, not a new balance of
                  power, but a new world of law, where the strong are just and the weak secure and the
                  peace preserved.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>All this will not be finished in the first 100 days. Nor will it be finished in
               the first 1,000 days, nor in the life of this Administration, nor even perhaps in
               our
               lifetime on this planet. But let us begin.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than in mine, will rest
                  the final success or failure of our course. Since this country was founded, each
                  generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty.
                  The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the
                  globe.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Now the trumpet summons us again--not as a call to bear arms,
                  though arms we need; not as a call to battle, though embattled we are--but a call
                  to
                  bear the burden of a long twilight struggle, year in and year out, "rejoicing in
                  hope, patient in tribulation"--a struggle against the common enemies of man:
                  tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance,
                  North and South, East and West, that can assure a more fruitful life for all
                  mankind? Will you join in that historic effort?</span></p>
            
            
            <p>In the long history of the world, only a few generations have been granted the
               role of defending freedom in its hour of maximum danger. I do not shrink from this
               responsibility--I welcome it. I do not believe that any of us would exchange places
               with
               any other people or any other generation.<span class="unity-P">The energy, the faith, the
                  devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light our country and all who serve
                  it--and the glow from that fire can truly light the world.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">And so, my fellow Americans: ask not what your country can do for
                  you--ask what you can do for your country.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>My fellow citizens of the world: ask not what America will do for you, but what
               together we can do for the freedom of man.</p>
            
            
            <p>Finally, whether you are citizens of America or citizens of the world, ask of us
               the same high standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you. <span class="religion">With a
                  good conscience our only sure reward, with history the final judge of our deeds, let
                  us go forth to lead the land we love, asking His blessing and His help, but knowing
                  that here on earth God's work must truly be our own.</span></p>
            </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="eisenhower_1.xhtml">Dwight Eisenhower</a></li>
            <li><a href="johnson_2.xhtml">Lyndon Johnson</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>