<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Richard M. Nixon (1969-1974)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
               <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Monday, January 20,
               1969</button>
               <div class="content">
               
               <p>Senator Dirksen, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, President Johnson, Vice
                  President Humphrey, my fellow Americans--and my fellow citizens of the world
                  community:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">I ask you to share with me today the majesty of this moment. In the orderly
                     transfer of power, we celebrate the unity that keeps us free.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Each moment in history is a fleeting time, precious and unique. But some stand
                  out as moments of beginning, in which courses are set that shape decades or
                  centuries.</p>
               
               
               <p>This can be such a moment.</p>
               
               
               <p>Forces now are converging that make possible, for the first time, the hope that
                  many of man's deepest aspirations can at last be realized. The spiraling pace of change
                  allows us to contemplate, within our own lifetime, advances that once would have taken
                  centuries.</p>
               
               
               <p>In throwing wide the horizons of space, we have discovered new horizons on
                  earth.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">For the first time, because the people of the world want peace, and the leaders
                     of the world are afraid of war, the times are on the side of peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Eight years from now America will celebrate its 200th anniversary as a nation.
                  Within the lifetime of most people now living, mankind will celebrate that great new
                  year which comes only once in a thousand years--the beginning of the third
                  millennium.</p>
               
               
               <p>What kind of nation we will be, what kind of world we will live in, whether we
                  shape the future in the image of our hopes, is ours to determine by our actions and
                  our
                  choices.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">The greatest honor history can bestow is the title of peacemaker. This honor now
                     beckons America--the chance to help lead the world at last out of the valley of turmoil,
                     and onto that high ground of peace that man has dreamed of since the dawn of
                     civilization.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>If we succeed, generations to come will say of us now living that we mastered our
                  moment, that we helped make the world safe for mankind.</p>
               
               
               <p>This is our summons to greatness.</p>
               
               
               <p>I believe the American people are ready to answer this call.</p>
               
               
               <p>The second third of this century has been a time of proud achievement. <span class="infrastructure">We have
                     made enormous strides in science and industry and agriculture.</span> <span class="economy-P">We have shared our wealth
                     more broadly than ever. We have learned at last to manage a modern economy to assure
                     its
                     continued growth.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">We have given freedom new reach, and we have begun to make its promise real for
                     black as well as for white.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="education-P">We see the hope of tomorrow in the youth of today. I know America's youth. I
                     believe in them. We can be proud that they are better educated, more committed, more
                     passionately driven by conscience than any generation in our history.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">No people has ever been so close to the achievement of a just and abundant
                     society, or so possessed of the will to achieve it. Because our strengths are so great,
                     we can afford to appraise our weaknesses with candor and to approach them with
                     hope.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="pred-P">Standing in this same place a third of a century ago, Franklin Delano Roosevelt
                     addressed a Nation ravaged by depression and gripped in fear. He could say in surveying
                     the Nation's troubles: "They concern, thank God, only material things."</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Our crisis today is the reverse.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">We have found ourselves rich in goods,</span> but ragged in spirit; reaching with
                  magnificent precision for the moon, but falling into raucous discord on
                  earth.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">We are caught in war, wanting peace.</span> <span class="unity-N">We are torn by division, wanting unity.</span> We
                  see around us empty lives, wanting fulfillment. We see tasks that need doing, waiting
                  for hands to do them.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">To a crisis of the spirit, we need an answer of the spirit.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>To find that answer, we need only look within ourselves.</p>
               
               
               <p>When we listen to "the better angels of our nature," we find that they celebrate
                  the simple things, the basic things--such as goodness, decency, love,
                  kindness.</p>
               
               
               <p>Greatness comes in simple trappings.</p>
               
               
               <p>The simple things are the ones most needed today if we are to surmount what
                  divides us, and cement what unites us.</p>
               
               
               <p>To lower our voices would be a simple thing.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">In these difficult years, America has suffered from a fever of words; from
                     inflated rhetoric that promises more than it can deliver; from angry rhetoric that
                     fans
                     discontents into hatreds; from bombastic rhetoric that postures instead of
                     persuading.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We cannot learn from one another until we stop shouting at one another--until we
                     speak quietly enough so that our words can be heard as well as our voices.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>For its part, government will listen. We will strive to listen in new ways--to
                  the voices of quiet anguish, the voices that speak without words, the voices of the
                  heart--to the injured voices, the anxious voices, the voices that have despaired of
                  being heard.</p>
               
               
               <p>Those who have been left out, we will try to bring in.</p>
               
               
               <p>Those left behind, we will help to catch up.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">For all of our people, we will set as our goal the decent order that makes
                     progress possible and our lives secure.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">As we reach toward our hopes, our task is to build on what has gone before--not
                     turning away from the old, but turning toward the new.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">In this past third of a century, government has passed more laws, spent more
                     money, initiated more programs, than in all our previous history.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">In pursuing our goals of full employment, better housing, excellence in
                     education; in rebuilding our cities and improving our rural areas; in protecting our
                     environment and enhancing the quality of life--in all these and more, we will and
                     must
                     press urgently forward.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">We shall plan now for the day when our wealth can be transferred from the
                     destruction of war abroad to the urgent needs of our people at home.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The American dream does not come to those who fall asleep.</p>
               
               
               <p>But we are approaching the limits of what government alone can do.</p>
               
               
               <p>Our greatest need now is to reach beyond government, and to enlist the legions of
                  the concerned and the committed.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">What has to be done, has to be done by government and people together or it will
                     not be done at all. The lesson of past agony is that without the people we can do
                     nothing; with the people we can do everything.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">To match the magnitude of our tasks, we need the energies of our people--enlisted
                     not only in grand enterprises, but more importantly in those small, splendid efforts
                     that make headlines in the neighborhood newspaper instead of the national
                     journal.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">With these, we can build a great cathedral of the spirit--each of us raising it
                     one stone at a time, as he reaches out to his neighbor, helping, caring,
                     doing.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I do not offer a life of uninspiring ease. I do not call for a life of grim
                  sacrifice. I ask you to join in a high adventure--one as rich as humanity itself,
                  and as
                  exciting as the times we live in.</p>
               
               
               <p>The essence of freedom is that each of us shares in the shaping of his own
                  destiny.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">Until he has been part of a cause larger than himself, no man is truly
                     whole.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>The way to fulfillment is in the use of our talents; we achieve nobility in the
                  spirit that inspires that use.</p>
               
               
               <p>As we measure what can be done, we shall promise only what we know we can
                  produce, but as we chart our goals we shall be lifted by our dreams.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">No man can be fully free while his neighbor is not. To go forward at all is to go
                     forward together.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="race">This means black and white together, as one nation, not two. The laws have caught
                     up with our conscience. What remains is to give life to what is in the law: to ensure
                     at
                     last that as all are born equal in dignity before God, all are born equal in dignity
                     before man.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">As we learn to go forward together at home, let us also seek to go forward
                     together with all mankind.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Let us take as our goal: where peace is unknown, make it welcome; where peace is
                     fragile, make it strong; where peace is temporary, make it permanent.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">After a period of confrontation, we are entering an era of
                     negotiation.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Let all nations know that during this administration our lines of communication
                     will be open.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="trade">We seek an open world--open to ideas, open to the exchange of goods</span> <span class="immigration-P">and people--a
                     world in which no people, great or small, will live in angry isolation.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We cannot expect to make everyone our friend, but we can try to make no one our
                     enemy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Those who would be our adversaries, we invite to a peaceful competition--not in
                     conquering territory or extending dominion, but in enriching the life of
                     man.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">As we explore the reaches of space, let us go to the new worlds together--not as
                     new worlds to be conquered, but as a new adventure to be shared.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">With those who are willing to join, let us cooperate to reduce the burden of
                     arms, to strengthen the structure of peace, to lift up the poor and the
                     hungry.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">But to all those who would be tempted by weakness, let us leave no doubt that we
                     will be as strong as we need to be for as long as we need to be.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Over the past twenty years, since I first came to this Capital as a freshman
                     Congressman, I have visited most of the nations of the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">I have come to know the leaders of the world, and the great forces, the hatreds,
                     the fears that divide the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">I know that peace does not come through wishing for it--that there is no
                     substitute for days and even years of patient and prolonged diplomacy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">I also know the people of the world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I have seen the hunger of a homeless child, the pain of a man wounded in battle,
                  the grief of a mother who has lost her son. I know these have no ideology, no
                  race.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">I know America. I know the heart of America is good.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">I speak from my own heart, and the heart of my country, the deep concern we have
                     for those who suffer, and those who sorrow.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I have taken an oath today in the presence of God and my countrymen to uphold and
                  defend the Constitution of the United States. <span class="war-N">To that oath I now add this sacred
                     commitment: I shall consecrate my office, my energies, and all the wisdom I can summon,
                     to the cause of peace among nations.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Let this message be heard by strong and weak alike:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">The peace we seek to win is not victory over any other people, but the peace that
                     comes "with healing in its wings"; with compassion for those who have suffered; with
                     understanding for those who have opposed us; with the opportunity for all the peoples
                     of
                     this earth to choose their own destiny.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Only a few short weeks ago, we shared the glory of man's first sight</span> of <span class="religion">the world
                     as God sees it, as a single sphere reflecting light in the darkness.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>As the Apollo astronauts flew over the moon's gray surface on Christmas Eve, they
                  spoke to us of the beauty of earth--and in that voice so clear across the lunar
                  distance, <span class="religion">we heard them invoke God's blessing on its goodness.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In that moment, their view from the moon moved poet Archibald MacLeish to
                  write:</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">"To see the earth as it truly is, small and blue and beautiful in that eternal
                     silence where it floats, is to see ourselves as riders on the earth together, brothers
                     on that bright loveliness in the eternal cold--brothers who know now they are truly
                     brothers."</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">In that moment of surpassing technological triumph, men turned their thoughts
                     toward home and humanity--seeing in that far perspective that man's destiny on earth
                     is
                     not divisible; telling us that however far we reach into the cosmos, our destiny lies
                     not in the stars but on Earth itself, in our own hands, in our own hearts.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We have endured a long night of the American spirit. But as our eyes catch the
                  dimness of the first rays of dawn, let us not curse the remaining dark. Let us gather
                  the light.</p>
               
               
               <p>Our destiny offers, not the cup of despair, but the chalice of opportunity. So
                  let us seize it, not in fear, but in gladness--and, "riders on the earth together,"
                  let
                  us go forward, firm in our faith, steadfast in our purpose, cautious of the dangers;
                  but
                  sustained by our confidence in the will of God and the promise of man.</p>
               </div>
               <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Saturday, January 20,
                     1973</button>
               <div class="content">
                     
                     <p>Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, Senator Cook, Mrs.
                           Eisenhower, and my fellow citizens of this great and good country we share
                           together:</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>When we met here four years ago, America was bleak in spirit, <span class="war-N">
                           depressed by the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive
                           conflict at home</span>.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">As we meet here today, we stand on the threshold of a new era of
                           peace in the world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>The central question before us is: How shall we use that peace? Let us resolve
                           that this era we are about to enter will not be what other postwar periods have so
                           often
                           been: a time of retreat and isolation that leads to stagnation at home and invites
                           new
                           danger abroad.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Let us resolve that this will be what it can become: a time of great
                           responsibilities greatly borne, in which we renew the spirit and the promise of America
                           as we enter our third century as a nation.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>This past year saw far-reaching results from our new policies for peace.
                           <span class="diplomacy">By continuing to revitalize our traditional friendships, and by our
                                 missions to Peking and to Moscow, we were able to establish the base for a new and
                                 more durable pattern of relationships among the nations of the world.</span>
                           <span class="unity-P">Because of America's bold initiatives, 1972 will be long remembered as
                                 the year of the greatest progress since the end of World War II toward a lasting
                                 peace in the world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-N">The peace we seek in the world is not the flimsy peace which is
                           merely an interlude between wars</span>, <span class="unity-P">but a peace which can
                                 endure for generations to come.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">It is important that we understand both the necessity and the
                           limitations of America's role in maintaining that peace.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Unless we in America work to preserve the peace, there will be no
                           peace.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Unless we in America work to preserve freedom, there will be no
                           freedom.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="regulation">But let us clearly understand the new nature of America's role, as a
                           result of the new policies we have adopted over these past four
                           years.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">We shall respect our treaty commitments.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>We shall support vigorously the principle that no country has the right to impose
                           its will or rule on another by force.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="war-P">We shall continue, in this era of negotiation, to work for the
                           limitation of nuclear arms, and to reduce the danger of confrontation between the
                           great powers.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">We shall do our share in defending peace and freedom in the
                           world. But we shall expect others to do their share.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">The time has passed when America will make every other nation's
                           conflict our own, or make every other nation's future our responsibility, or presume
                           to tell the people of other nations how to manage their own
                           affairs.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">Just as we respect the right of each nation to determine its own
                           future, we also recognize the responsibility of each nation to secure its own
                           future.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">Just as America's role is indispensable in preserving the world's
                           peace, so is each nation's role indispensable in preserving its own
                           peace.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">Together with the rest of the world, let us resolve to move forward
                           from the beginnings we have made. Let us continue to bring down the walls of
                           hostility which have divided the world for too long, and to build in their place
                           bridges of understanding—so that despite profound differences between systems of
                           government, the people of the world can be friends.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Let us build a structure of peace in the world in which the weak
                           are as safe as the strong—in which each respects the right of the other to live by
                           a
                           different system—in which those who would influence others will do so by the
                           strength of their ideas, and not by the force of their arms.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Let us accept that high responsibility not as a burden, but gladly—gladly because
                           the chance to build such a peace is the noblest endeavor in which a nation can engage;
                           gladly, also, because only if we act greatly in meeting our responsibilities abroad
                           will
                           we remain a great Nation, and only if we remain a great Nation will we act greatly
                           in
                           meeting our challenges at home.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>We have the chance today to do more than ever before in our history to make life
                           better in America—<span class="education-N">to ensure better education</span>,
                           <span class="public_health-N">"&gt;better health</span>, <span class="infrastructure">better
                                 housing, better transportation</span>, a cleaner environment—to restore
                           respect for law, to make our communities more livable—and to insure the God-given
                           right
                           of every American to full and equal opportunity.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Because the range of our needs is so great—because the reach of our opportunities
                           is so great—let us be bold in our determination to meet those needs in new
                           ways.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="regulation">Just as building a structure of peace abroad has required turning
                           away from old policies that failed, so building a new era of progress at home
                           requires turning away from old policies that have failed.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Abroad, the shift from old policies to new has not been a retreat from our
                           responsibilities, but a better way to peace.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>And at home, the shift from old policies to new will not be a retreat from our
                           responsibilities, but a better way to progress.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Abroad and at home, the key to those new responsibilities lies in the placing and
                           the division of responsibility. We have lived too long with the consequences of
                           attempting to gather all power and responsibility in Washington.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Abroad and at home, the time has come to turn away from the condescending
                           policies of paternalism—of "Washington knows best."</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>A person can be expected to act responsibly only if he has responsibility. This
                           is human nature. So let us encourage individuals at home and nations abroad to do
                           more
                           for themselves, to decide more for themselves. Let us locate responsibility in more
                           places. Let us measure what we will do for others by what they will do for
                           themselves.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-N">That is why today I offer no promise of a purely governmental
                           solution for every problem. We have lived too long with that false promise. In
                           trusting too much in government, we have asked of it more than it can deliver. This
                           leads only to inflated expectations, to reduced individual effort, and to a
                           disappointment and frustration that erode confidence both in what government can do
                           and in what people can do.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Government must learn to take less from people so that people can do more for
                           themselves.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="democracy">Let us remember that America was built not by government, but by
                           people—not by welfare</span>, but by work—not by shirking responsibility, but
                           by seeking responsibility.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>In our own lives, let each of us ask—not just what will government do for me, but
                           what can I do for myself?</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>In the challenges we face together, let each of us ask—not just how can
                           government help, but how can I help?</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Your National Government has a great and vital role to play. And
                           I pledge to you that where this Government should act, we will act boldly and we
                           will lead boldly. But just as important is the role that each and every one of us
                           must play, as an individual and as a member of his own
                           community.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">From this day forward, let each of us make a solemn commitment in
                           his own heart: to bear his responsibility, to do his part, to live his ideals—so
                           that together, we can see the dawn of a new age of progress for America, and
                           together, as we celebrate our 200th anniversary as a nation, we can do so proud in
                           the fulfillment of our promise to ourselves and to the world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="war-P">As America's longest and most difficult war comes to an end</span>,
                           let us again learn to debate our differences with civility and decency. <span class="unity-P">And let each of
                                 us reach out for that one precious quality government cannot provide—a new level of
                                 respect for the rights and feelings of one another, a new level of respect for the
                                 individual human dignity which is the cherished birthright of every
                                 American.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Above all else, the time has come for us to renew our faith in ourselves and in
                           America.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>In recent years, that faith has been challenged.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Our children have been taught to be ashamed of their country,
                           ashamed of their parents, ashamed of America's record at home and of its role in the
                           world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>At every turn, we have been beset by those who find everything wrong with America
                           and little that is right. But I am confident that this will not be the judgment of
                           history on these remarkable times in which we are privileged to live.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">America's record in this century has been unparalleled in the
                           world's history for its responsibility, for its generosity, for its creativity and
                           for its progress.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Let us be proud that our system has produced and provided more
                           freedom and more abundance, more widely shared, than any other system in the history
                           of the world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="war-P">Let us be proud that in each of the four wars in which we have been
                           engaged in this century, including the one we are now bringing to an end, we have
                           fought not for our selfish advantage, but to help others resist
                           aggression.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Let us be proud that by our bold, new initiatives, and by our
                           steadfastness for peace with honor, we have made a break-through toward creating in
                           the world what the world has not known before—a structure of peace that can last,
                           not merely for our time, but for generations to come.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>We are embarking here today on an era that presents challenges great as those any
                           nation, or any generation, has ever faced.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>We shall answer to God, to history, and to our conscience for the way in which we
                           use these years.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p>As I stand in this place, so hallowed by history, I think of others who have
                           stood here before me. I think of the dreams they had for America, and I think of how
                           each recognized that he needed help far beyond himself in order to make those dreams
                           come true.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="religion">Today, I ask your prayers that in the years ahead I may have God's help
                           in making decisions that are right for America</span>, and I pray for your help
                           so that together we may be worthy of our challenge.</p>
                     
                     
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Let us pledge together to make these next four years the best
                           four years in America's history, so that on its 200th birthday America will be as
                           young and as vital as when it began, and as bright a beacon of hope for all the
                           world.</span></p>
                     
                     
                     <p>Let us go forward from here confident in hope, strong in our faith in one
                           another, <span class="religion">sustained by our faith in God who created us, and striving always to
                                 serve His purpose.</span></p>
               </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="johnson_2.xhtml">Lyndon Johnson</a></li>
            <li><a href="carter_1.xhtml">Jimmy Carter</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>