<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Barack Obama Second Inaugural Address Monday, January 21,
         2013</h2>
      
      
      <p>Thank you. Thank you so much. Vice President BIDEN, Mr. Chief Justice, Members of
         the U.S. Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow citizens, <span class="democracy">each time we gather to
            inaugurate a President, we bear witness to the enduring strength of our Constitution.
            We
            affirm the promise of our democracy.</span><span class="unity-P">We recall that what binds this
            Nation together are not the colors of our skin or the tenets of our faith or the
            origins of our names. What makes us exceptional— what makes us American—is our
            allegiance to an idea, articulated in a declaration made more than two centuries
            ago:</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created
            equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that
            among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">Today we continue a never-ending journey to bridge the meaning of
            those words with the realities of our time, for history tells us that while these
            truths may be self-evident, they have never been self-executing; that while freedom
            is a gift from God, it must be secured by His people here on
            Earth.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">The patriots of 1776 did not fight to replace the tyranny of a
            king with the privileges of a few or the rule of a mob. They gave to us a republic,
            a government of and by and for the people, entrusting each generation to keep safe
            our founding creed. For more than 200 years, we have. Through blood drawn by lash
            and blood drawn by sword, we learned that no union founded on the principles of
            liberty and equality could survive half slave and half free. We made ourselves anew
            and vowed to move forward together. Together, we determined that a modern economy
            requires railroads and highways to speed travel and commerce; schools and colleges
            to train our workers. Together, we discovered that a free market only thrives when
            there are rules to ensure competition and fair play. Together, we resolve that a
            great nation must care for the vulnerable and protect its people from life’s worst
            hazards and misfortunes. Through it all, we have never relinquished our skepticism
            of central authority, nor have we succumbed to the fiction that all society’s ills
            can be cured through government alone. Our celebration of initiative and enterprise,
            our insistence on hard work and personal responsibility, these are constants in our
            character.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">We have always understood that when times change, so must we;
            that fidelity to our founding principles requires new responses to new challenges;
            that preserving our individual freedoms ultimately requires collective action, for
            the American people can no more meet the demands of today’s world by acting alone
            than American soldiers could have met the forces of fascism or communism with
            muskets and militias. No single person can train all the math and science teachers
            we will need to equip our children for the future or build the roads and networks
            and research labs that will bring new jobs to our shores. Now, more than ever, we
            must do these things together as one Nation and one people.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="war-N">This generation of Americans has been tested by crises that steeled
            our resolve and proved our resilience. A decade of war is now
            ending.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="economy-P">An economic recovery has begun.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">America’s possibilities are limitless, for we possess all the
            qualities this world without boundaries demands: youth and drive, diversity and
            openness, an endless capacity for risk, and a gift for
            reinvention.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, we are made for this moment, and we will
            seize it so long as we seize it together.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">For we, the People, understand that our country cannot succeed
            when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make
            it.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="jobs-P">We believe America’s prosperity must rest upon the broad shoulders
            of a rising middle class. We know America thrives when every person can find
            independence and pride in their work, when the wages of honest labor liberate
            families from the brink of hardship. We are true to our creed when a little girl
            born into the bleakest poverty knows she has the same chance to succeed as anybody
            else because she is an American, she is free, and she is equal, not just in the eyes
            of God but also in our own.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="infrastructure">We understand outworn programs are inadequate to the needs of our
            time. We must harness new ideas in technology to remake our
            government,</span><span class="tax-">revamp our Tax Code,</span><span class="education-N">reform our schools, and empower our citizens with the skills they need to work
            harder, learn more, and reach higher.</span>But while the means will change,
         our purpose endures.<span class="unity-P">A nation that rewards the effort and determination
            of every single American, that is what this moment requires. That is what will give
            real meaning to our creed.</span></p>
      
      
      <p>We, the people, still believe that every citizen deserves a basic measure of
         security and dignity.<span class="regulation">We must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of
            health care</span> and the size of our deficit.<span class="economy-N">But we reject
            the belief that America must choose between caring for the generation that built
            this country and investing in the generation that will build its
            future.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="economy-N">For we remember the lessons of our past, when twilight years
            were spent in poverty and parents of a child with a disability had nowhere to turn.
            We do not believe, in this country, freedom is reserved for the lucky or happiness
            for the few. We recognize that no matter how responsibly we live our lives, any one
            of us, at any time, may face a job loss or a sudden illness or a home swept away in
            a terrible storm.</span><span class="regulation">The commitments we make to each other,
            through Medicare and Medicaid and Social Security, these things do not sap our
            Nation; they strengthen us.</span></p>
      
      
      <p>They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make
         this country great.</p>
      
      
      <p><span class="regulation">We, the people, still believe our obligations as Americans are not
            just to ourselves but to all posterity. We will respond to the threat of climate
            change, knowing the failure to do so would betray our children and future
            generations.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="regulation">Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science, but none
            can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires and crippling drought and more
            powerful storms. The path toward sustainable energy sources will be long and
            sometimes difficult, but America cannot resist this transition; we must lead
            it.</span><span class="jobs-N">We cannot cede to other Nations the technology that
            will power new jobs and new industries;</span><span class="regulation">we must claim its promise.
            That is how we will maintain our economic vitality and our national treasure, our
            forests and waterways, our croplands and snow-capped peaks. That is how we will
            preserve our planet, commanded to our care by God. That is what will lend meaning
            to
            the creed our Fathers once declared.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="war-N">We, the people, still believe that enduring security and lasting
            peace do not require perpetual war. Our brave men and women in uniform, tempered by
            the flames of battle, are unmatched in skill and courage. Our citizens, seared by
            the memory of those we have lost, know too well the price that is paid for liberty.
            The knowledge of their sacrifice will keep us forever vigilant against those who
            would do us harm. But we are also heirs to those who won the peace and not just the
            war, who turned sworn enemies into the surest of friends, and we must carry those
            lessons into this time as well.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="war-N">We will defend our people and uphold our values through strength of
            arms and rule of law. We will show the courage to try and resolve our differences
            with other Nations peacefully, not because we are naive about the dangers we face
            but because engagement can more durably lift suspicion and fear.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="diplomacy">America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in every corner of
            the globe, and we will renew those institutions that extend our capacity to manage
            crisis abroad, for no one has a greater stake in a peaceful world than its most
            powerful Nation.</span><span class="democracy">We will support democracy from Asia to
            Africa, from the Americas to the Middle East, because our interests and our
            conscience compel us to act on behalf of those who long for freedom. We must be a
            source of hope to the poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice,
            not out of mere charity but because peace in our time requires the constant advance
            of those principles that our common creed describes: tolerance and opportunity,
            human dignity and justice.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths,
            that all of us are created equal, is the star that guides us still, just as it
            guided our forebears through Seneca Falls and Selma and Stonewall, just as it guided
            all those men and women, sung and unsung, who left footprints along this great Mall
            to hear a preacher say we cannot walk alone, to hear a ‘‘King’’ proclaim that our
            individual freedom is inextricably bound to the freedom of every soul on
            Earth.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">It is now our generation’s task to carry on what those pioneers
            began, for our journey is not complete until our wives, our mothers, and daughters
            can earn a living equal to their efforts.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters
            are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then
            surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait
            for hours to exercise the right to vote.</span><span class="immigration-P">Our journey is
            not complete until we find a better way to welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants
            who still see America as a land of opportunity; until bright young students and
            engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled from our
            country.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the
            streets of Detroit to the hills of Appalachia, to the quiet lanes of Newtown, know
            they are cared for and cherished and always safe from harm. That is our generation’s
            task—to make these words, these rights, these values of life and liberty and the
            pursuit of happiness real for every American.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">Being true to our founding documents does not require us to agree
            on every contour of life. It does not mean we will all define liberty in exactly the
            same way or follow the same precise path to happiness. Progress does not compel us
            to settle centuries-long debates about the role of government for all time, but it
            does require us to act in our time.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay. We
            cannot mistake absolutism for principle or substitute spectacle for politics or
            treat name-calling as reasoned debate. We must act, knowing our work will be
            imperfect. We must act, knowing today’s victories will be only partial and that it
            will be up to those who stand here in 4 years and 40 years and 400 years hence to
            advance the timeless spirit once conferred to us in a spare Philadelphia
            hall.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, the oath I have sworn before you today,
            similar to the one recited by others who serve in this Capitol, was an oath to God
            and country, not party or faction, and we must faithfully execute that pledge during
            the duration of our service. But the words I spoke today are not so different from
            the oath that is taken each time a soldier signs up for duty or an immigrant
            realizes her dream. My oath is not so different from the pledge we all make to the
            flag that waves above and that fills our hearts with pride. They are the words of
            citizens and they represent our greatest hope. You and I, as citizens, have the
            power to set this country’s course.</span></p>
      
      
      <p><span class="unity-N">You and I, as citizens, have the obligation to shape the debates
            of our time, not only with the votes we cast but with the voices we lift in defense
            of our most ancient values and enduring ideals. Let each of us now embrace, with
            solemn duty and awesome joy, what is our lasting birthright. With common effort and
            common purpose, with passion and dedication, let us answer the call of history and
            carry into an uncertain future that precious light of freedom.</span></p>
      
      
      <p>Thank you. God bless you, and may He forever bless these United States of
         America.</p>
      
      </body>
</html>