<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script>
         <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Barack H. Obama (2009-2017)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
           
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Tuesday, January 20, 2009</button>
            <div class="content">
               <p>My fellow citizens:</p>
            
            <p>I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you have
               bestowed, mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. <span class="pred-P">I thank President Bush for
                  his service to our nation, as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown
                  throughout this transition.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="pred-P">Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential oath. The words have been
                  spoken during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every
                  so
                  often the oath is taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms.</span> At these moments,
               America has carried on not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high
               office, but because we the people have remained faithful to the ideals of our forebears,
               and true to our founding documents.</p>
            
            
            <p>So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at war,
                  against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred.</span> <span class="economy-N">Our economy is badly weakened, a
                  consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective
                  failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age. Homes have been
                  lost;
                  jobs shed; businesses shuttered.</span> <span class="public_health-N">Our health care is too costly</span>; <span class="education-N">our schools fail too
                  many;</span> and each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our
               adversaries and threaten our planet.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less
                  measurable but no less profound is a sapping of confidence across our land -- a nagging
                  fear that America's decline is inevitable, and that the next generation must lower
                  its
                  sights.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious and
                  they are many. They will not be met easily or in a short span of time.</span> <span class="unity-P">But know this,
                  America -- they will be met.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose
                  over conflict and discord.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-N">On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false
                  promises, the recriminations and worn out dogmas, that for far too long have strangled
                  our politics.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>We remain a young nation, but in the words of scripture, the time has come to set
               aside childish things. The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit; to choose
               our
               better history; to carry forward that precious gift, that noble idea, passed on from
               generation to generation: the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free and
               all
               deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never
                  a given. It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of shortcuts or settling
                  for
                  less. It has not been the path for the faint-hearted -- for those who prefer leisure
                  over work, or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the
                  risk-takers, the doers, the makers of things -- some celebrated but more often men
                  and
                  women obscure in their labor, who have carried us up the long, rugged path towards
                  prosperity and freedom.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans
                  in search of a new life.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West; endured the lash of the
                  whip and plowed the hard earth.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-N">For us, they fought and died, in places like Concord and Gettysburg; Normandy and
                  Khe Sahn.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Time and again these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their
                  hands were raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than
                  the
                  sum of our individual ambitions; greater than all the differences of birth or wealth
                  or
                  faction.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful
                  nation on Earth.</span> <span class="jobs-P">Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our
                  minds are no less inventive, our goods and services no less needed than they were
                  last
                  week or last month or last year.</span> <span class="unity-P">Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of
                  standing pat, of protecting narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions
                  --
                  that time has surely passed. Starting today, we must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves
                  off, and begin again the work of remaking America.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of the economy calls
                  for action, bold and swift, and we will act -- not only to create new jobs, but to
                  lay a
                  new foundation for growth.</span> <span class="infrastructure">We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and
                  digital lines that feed our commerce and bind us together. We will restore science
                  to
                  its rightful place, and wield technology's wonders to raise health care's quality
                  and
                  lower its cost. We will harness the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars
                  and
                  run our factories.</span> <span class="education-N">And we will transform our schools and colleges and universities to
                  meet the demands of a new age.</span> All this we can do. And all this we will do.</p>
            
            
            <p>Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions -- who suggest that
               our system cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short. For they
               have
               forgotten what this country has already done; what free men and women can achieve
               when
               imagination is joined to common purpose, and necessity to courage.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="regulation">What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them --
                  that the stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply.
                  The question we ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small, but
                  whether it works -- whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they
                  can
                  afford, a retirement that is dignified. Where the answer is yes, we intend to move
                  forward. Where the answer is no, programs will end. And those of us who manage the
                  public's dollars will be held to account -- to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and
                  do
                  our business in the light of day -- because only then can we restore the vital trust
                  between a people and their government.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="economy-N">Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its
                  power to generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched, but this crisis has reminded
                  us that without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control -- and that a nation
                  cannot prosper long when it favors only the prosperous. The success of our economy
                  has
                  always depended not just on the size of our gross domestic product, but on the reach
                  of
                  our prosperity; on our ability to extend opportunity to every willing heart -- not
                  out
                  of charity, but because it is the surest route to our common good.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and
                  our ideals. Our founding fathers, faced with perils we can scarcely imagine, drafted
                  a
                  charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man, a charter expanded by the
                  blood
                  of generations. Those ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for
                  expedience's sake. And so to all other peoples and governments who are watching today,
                  from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born: know that
                  America is a friend of each nation and every man, woman, and child who seeks a future
                  of
                  peace and dignity, and that we are ready to lead once more.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with
                  missiles and tanks, but with sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood
                  that our power alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please.
                  Instead, they knew that our power grows through its prudent use; our security emanates
                  from the justness of our cause, the force of our example, the tempering qualities
                  of
                  humility and restraint.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">We are the keepers of this legacy. Guided by these principles once more, we can
                  meet those new threats that demand even greater effort -- even greater cooperation
                  and
                  understanding between nations. We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people,
                  and forge a hard-earned peace in Afghanistan.</span> <span class="war-P">With old friends and former foes, we will
                  work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat, and roll back the specter of a warming
                  planet. We will not apologize for our way of life, nor will we waver in its defense,
                  and
                  for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents,
                  we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot be broken; you cannot outlast
                  us, and we will defeat you.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. <span class="religion">We are a
                  nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus -- and non-believers.</span> <span class="race">We are shaped by
                  every language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth; and because we have
                  tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation,</span> <span class="unity-P">and emerged from that dark chapter
                  stronger and more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday
                  pass; that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve; that as the world grows smaller,
                  our
                  common humanity shall reveal itself; and that America must play its role in ushering
                  in
                  a new era of peace.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and
                  mutual respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict, or blame
                  their society's ills on the West -- know that your people will judge you on what you
                  can
                  build, not what you destroy. To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit
                  and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history; but
                  that
                  we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="diplomacy">To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms
                  flourish and let clean waters flow; to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds.
                  And
                  to those nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford
                  indifference to suffering outside our borders; nor can we consume the world's resources
                  without regard to effect. For the world has changed, and we must change with
                  it.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="war-P">As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude
                  those brave Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant
                  mountains. They have something to tell us today, just as the fallen heroes who lie
                  in
                  Arlington whisper through the ages. We honor them not only because they are guardians
                  of
                  our liberty, but because they embody the spirit of service; a willingness to find
                  meaning in something greater than themselves. And yet, at this moment -- a moment
                  that
                  will define a generation -- it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us
                  all.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">For as much as government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and
                  determination of the American people upon which this nation relies. It is the kindness
                  to take in a stranger when the levees break, the selflessness of workers who would
                  rather cut their hours than see a friend lose their job which sees us through our
                  darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage to storm a stairway filled with smoke,
                  but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child, that finally decides our
                  fate.</span></p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new.
                  But those values upon which our success depends -- hard work and honesty, courage
                  and
                  fair play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old.
                  These things are true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our
                  history. What is demanded then is a return to these truths. What is required of us
                  now
                  is a new era of responsibility -- a recognition, on the part of every American, that
                  we
                  have duties to ourselves, our nation, and the world, duties that we do not grudgingly
                  accept but rather seize gladly, firm in the knowledge that there is nothing so
                  satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our character, than giving our all to a
                  difficult task.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>This is the price and the promise of citizenship.</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="religion">This is the source of our confidence -- the knowledge that God calls on us to
                  shape an uncertain destiny.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed -- why men and women and
               children of <span class="race">every race</span> and <span class="religion">every faith</span> 
               <span class="unity-P">can join in celebration across this magnificent
                  mall, and why a man whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served
                  at
                  a local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath.</span></p>
            
            
            <p>So let us mark this day with remembrance, of who we are and how far we have
               traveled. In the year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of
               patriots huddled by dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. The capital was
               abandoned. The enemy was advancing. The snow was stained with blood. At a moment when
               the outcome of our revolution was most in doubt, the father of our nation ordered
               these
               words be read to the people:</p>
            
            
            <p>"Let it be told to the future world ... that in the depth of winter, when nothing
               but hope and virtue could survive...that the city and the country, alarmed at one
               common
               danger, came forth to meet (it)."</p>
            
            
            <p><span class="unity-P">America, in the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let
                  us remember these timeless words. With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the
                  icy
                  currents, and endure what storms may come. Let it be said by our children's children
                  that when we were tested we refused to let this journey end, that we did not turn
                  back
                  nor did we falter; and with eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we
                  carried forth that great gift of freedom and delivered it safely to future
                  generations.</span></p>
               </div>

                 <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Monday, January 21, 2013</button>
               <div class="content">
               <p>Thank you. Thank you so much. Vice President BIDEN, Mr. Chief Justice, Members of the
                           U.S. Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow citizens, <span class="democracy"
                                 >each time we gather to inaugurate a President, we bear witness to the
                                 enduring strength of our Constitution. We affirm the promise of our
                                 democracy.</span><span class="unity-P">We recall that what binds this Nation
                                       together are not the colors of our skin or the tenets of our faith or the
                                       origins of our names. What makes us exceptional— what makes us American—is
                                       our allegiance to an idea, articulated in a declaration made more than two
                                       centuries ago:</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
                           created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
                           unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of
                           Happiness.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Today we continue a never-ending journey to bridge the meaning
                           of those words with the realities of our time, for history tells us that
                           while these truths may be self-evident, they have never been self-executing;
                           that while freedom is a gift from God, it must be secured by His people here
                           on Earth.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">The patriots of 1776 did not fight to replace the tyranny of a
                           king with the privileges of a few or the rule of a mob. They gave to us a
                           republic, a government of and by and for the people, entrusting each
                           generation to keep safe our founding creed. For more than 200 years, we
                           have. Through blood drawn by lash and blood drawn by sword, we learned that
                           no union founded on the principles of liberty and equality could survive
                           half slave and half free. We made ourselves anew and vowed to move forward
                           together. Together, we determined that a modern economy requires railroads
                           and highways to speed travel and commerce; schools and colleges to train our
                           workers. Together, we discovered that a free market only thrives when there
                           are rules to ensure competition and fair play. Together, we resolve that a
                           great nation must care for the vulnerable and protect its people from life’s
                           worst hazards and misfortunes. Through it all, we have never relinquished
                           our skepticism of central authority, nor have we succumbed to the fiction
                           that all society’s ills can be cured through government alone. Our
                           celebration of initiative and enterprise, our insistence on hard work and
                           personal responsibility, these are constants in our character.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">We have always understood that when times change, so must we;
                           that fidelity to our founding principles requires new responses to new
                           challenges; that preserving our individual freedoms ultimately requires
                           collective action, for the American people can no more meet the demands of
                           today’s world by acting alone than American soldiers could have met the
                           forces of fascism or communism with muskets and militias. No single person
                           can train all the math and science teachers we will need to equip our
                           children for the future or build the roads and networks and research labs
                           that will bring new jobs to our shores. Now, more than ever, we must do
                           these things together as one Nation and one people.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="war-N">This generation of Americans has been tested by crises that
                           steeled our resolve and proved our resilience. A decade of war is now
                           ending.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="economy-P">An economic recovery has begun.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">America’s possibilities are limitless, for we possess all the
                           qualities this world without boundaries demands: youth and drive, diversity
                           and openness, an endless capacity for risk, and a gift for
                           reinvention.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, we are made for this moment, and we will
                           seize it so long as we seize it together.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">For we, the People, understand that our country cannot succeed
                           when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make
                           it.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="jobs-P">We believe America’s prosperity must rest upon the broad
                           shoulders of a rising middle class. We know America thrives when every
                           person can find independence and pride in their work, when the wages of
                           honest labor liberate families from the brink of hardship. We are true to
                           our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows she has
                           the same chance to succeed as anybody else because she is an American, she
                           is free, and she is equal, not just in the eyes of God but also in our
                           own.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="infrastructure">We understand outworn programs are inadequate to the
                           needs of our time. We must harness new ideas in technology to remake our
                           government,</span><span class="tax-">revamp our Tax Code,</span><span
                                 class="education-N">reform our schools, and empower our citizens with the
                                 skills they need to work harder, learn more, and reach higher.</span>But
                           while the means will change, our purpose endures.<span class="unity-P">A nation
                                 that rewards the effort and determination of every single American, that is
                                 what this moment requires. That is what will give real meaning to our
                                 creed.</span></p>
                     <p>We, the people, still believe that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security
                           and dignity.<span class="regulation">We must make the hard choices to reduce the
                                 cost of health care</span> and the size of our deficit.<span
                                       class="economy-N">But we reject the belief that America must choose between
                                       caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the
                                       generation that will build its future.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="economy-N">For we remember the lessons of our past, when twilight years
                           were spent in poverty and parents of a child with a disability had nowhere
                           to turn. We do not believe, in this country, freedom is reserved for the
                           lucky or happiness for the few. We recognize that no matter how responsibly
                           we live our lives, any one of us, at any time, may face a job loss or a
                           sudden illness or a home swept away in a terrible storm.</span><span
                                 class="regulation">The commitments we make to each other, through Medicare
                                 and Medicaid and Social Security, these things do not sap our Nation; they
                                 strengthen us.</span></p>
                     <p>They do not make us a nation of takers; they free us to take the risks that make this
                           country great.</p>
                     <p><span class="regulation">We, the people, still believe our obligations as Americans
                           are not just to ourselves but to all posterity. We will respond to the
                           threat of climate change, knowing the failure to do so would betray our
                           children and future generations.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="regulation">Some may still deny the overwhelming judgment of science,
                           but none can avoid the devastating impact of raging fires and crippling
                           drought and more powerful storms. The path toward sustainable energy sources
                           will be long and sometimes difficult, but America cannot resist this
                           transition; we must lead it.</span><span class="jobs-N">We cannot cede to
                                 other Nations the technology that will power new jobs and new
                                 industries;</span><span class="regulation">we must claim its promise. That
                                       is how we will maintain our economic vitality and our national treasure, our
                                       forests and waterways, our croplands and snow-capped peaks. That is how we
                                       will preserve our planet, commanded to our care by God. That is what will
                                       lend meaning to the creed our Fathers once declared.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="war-N">We, the people, still believe that enduring security and lasting
                           peace do not require perpetual war. Our brave men and women in uniform,
                           tempered by the flames of battle, are unmatched in skill and courage. Our
                           citizens, seared by the memory of those we have lost, know too well the
                           price that is paid for liberty. The knowledge of their sacrifice will keep
                           us forever vigilant against those who would do us harm. But we are also
                           heirs to those who won the peace and not just the war, who turned sworn
                           enemies into the surest of friends, and we must carry those lessons into
                           this time as well.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="war-N">We will defend our people and uphold our values through strength
                           of arms and rule of law. We will show the courage to try and resolve our
                           differences with other Nations peacefully, not because we are naive about
                           the dangers we face but because engagement can more durably lift suspicion
                           and fear.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="diplomacy">America will remain the anchor of strong alliances in every
                           corner of the globe, and we will renew those institutions that extend our
                           capacity to manage crisis abroad, for no one has a greater stake in a
                           peaceful world than its most powerful Nation.</span><span class="democracy"
                                 >We will support democracy from Asia to Africa, from the Americas to the
                                 Middle East, because our interests and our conscience compel us to act on
                                 behalf of those who long for freedom. We must be a source of hope to the
                                 poor, the sick, the marginalized, the victims of prejudice, not out of mere
                                 charity but because peace in our time requires the constant advance of those
                                 principles that our common creed describes: tolerance and opportunity, human
                                 dignity and justice.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">We, the people, declare today that the most evident of truths,
                           that all of us are created equal, is the star that guides us still, just as
                           it guided our forebears through Seneca Falls and Selma and Stonewall, just
                           as it guided all those men and women, sung and unsung, who left footprints
                           along this great Mall to hear a preacher say we cannot walk alone, to hear a
                           ‘‘King’’ proclaim that our individual freedom is inextricably bound to the
                           freedom of every soul on Earth.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">It is now our generation’s task to carry on what those pioneers
                           began, for our journey is not complete until our wives, our mothers, and
                           daughters can earn a living equal to their efforts.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters
                           are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created
                           equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as
                           well.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until no citizen is forced to wait
                           for hours to exercise the right to vote.</span><span class="immigration-P"
                                 >Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to welcome the
                                 striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America as a land of opportunity;
                                 until bright young students and engineers are enlisted in our workforce
                                 rather than expelled from our country.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">Our journey is not complete until all our children, from the
                           streets of Detroit to the hills of Appalachia, to the quiet lanes of
                           Newtown, know they are cared for and cherished and always safe from harm.
                           That is our generation’s task—to make these words, these rights, these
                           values of life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness real for every
                           American.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">Being true to our founding documents does not require us to
                           agree on every contour of life. It does not mean we will all define liberty
                           in exactly the same way or follow the same precise path to happiness.
                           Progress does not compel us to settle centuries-long debates about the role
                           of government for all time, but it does require us to act in our
                           time.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">For now decisions are upon us, and we cannot afford delay. We
                           cannot mistake absolutism for principle or substitute spectacle for politics
                           or treat name-calling as reasoned debate. We must act, knowing our work will
                           be imperfect. We must act, knowing today’s victories will be only partial
                           and that it will be up to those who stand here in 4 years and 40 years and
                           400 years hence to advance the timeless spirit once conferred to us in a
                           spare Philadelphia hall.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-P">My fellow Americans, the oath I have sworn before you today,
                           similar to the one recited by others who serve in this Capitol, was an oath
                           to God and country, not party or faction, and we must faithfully execute
                           that pledge during the duration of our service. But the words I spoke today
                           are not so different from the oath that is taken each time a soldier signs
                           up for duty or an immigrant realizes her dream. My oath is not so different
                           from the pledge we all make to the flag that waves above and that fills our
                           hearts with pride. They are the words of citizens and they represent our
                           greatest hope. You and I, as citizens, have the power to set this country’s
                           course.</span></p>
                     <p><span class="unity-N">You and I, as citizens, have the obligation to shape the
                           debates of our time, not only with the votes we cast but with the voices we
                           lift in defense of our most ancient values and enduring ideals. Let each of
                           us now embrace, with solemn duty and awesome joy, what is our lasting
                           birthright. With common effort and common purpose, with passion and
                           dedication, let us answer the call of history and carry into an uncertain
                           future that precious light of freedom.</span></p>
                     <p>Thank you. God bless you, and may He forever bless these United States of
                           America.</p>
               </div>
            </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
               <li><a href="bush_1.xhtml">George W. Bush</a></li>
               <li><a href="trump_1.xhtml">Donald Trump</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>