<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Ronald Reagan (1981-1989)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Tuesday, January 20,
               1981</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>Senator Hatfield, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. President, Vice President Bush, Vice
                  President Mondale, Senator Baker, Speaker O'Neill, Reverend Moomaw, and my fellow
                  citizens: To a few of us here today, this is a solemn and most momentous occasion;
                  and
                  yet, in the history of our Nation, it is a commonplace occurrence. <span class="democracy">The
                     orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution routinely takes
                     place as it has for almost two centuries and few of us stop to think how unique we
                     really are. In the eyes of many in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept
                     as normal is nothing less than a miracle.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="pred-P">Mr. President, I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did
                     to carry on this tradition. By your gracious cooperation in the transition process,
                     you have shown a watching world that we are a united people pledged to maintaining
                     a
                     political system which guarantees individual liberty to a greater degree than any
                     other, and I thank you and your people for all your help in maintaining the
                     continuity which is the bulwark of our Republic.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">The business of our nation goes forward. These United States
                     are confronted with an economic affliction of great proportions. We suffer from the
                     longest and one of the worst sustained inflations in our national history. It
                     distorts our economic decisions, penalizes thrift, and crushes the struggling young
                     and the fixed-income elderly alike. It threatens to shatter the lives of millions
                     of
                     our people.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="jobs-N">Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment, causing human
                     misery and personal indignity.</span>
                  <span class="tax">Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system
                     which penalizes successful achievement and keeps us from maintaining full
                     productivity.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="tax">But great as our tax burden is, it has not kept pace with
                     public spending. For decades, we have piled deficit upon deficit, mortgaging our
                     future and our children's future for the temporary convenience of the present. To
                     continue this long trend is to guarantee tremendous social, cultural, political, and
                     economic upheavals.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>You and I, as individuals, can, by borrowing, live beyond our means, but for only
                  a limited period of time. <span class="unity-P">Why, then, should we think that collectively, as a nation, we
                     are not bound by that same limitation?</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow. And let there be
                     no misunderstanding—we are going to begin to act, beginning
                     today.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">The economic ills we suffer have come upon us over several
                     decades. They will not go away in days, weeks, or months, but they will go
                     away.</span>
                  <span class="unity-P">They will go away because we, as Americans, have the capacity now, as we
                     have had in the past, to do whatever needs to be done to preserve this last and
                     greatest bastion of freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our
                  problem.</p>
               
               
               <p>From time to time, we have been tempted to believe that society has become too
                  complex to be managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior
                  to
                  government for, by, and of the people. But if no one among us is capable of governing
                  himself, then who among us has the capacity to govern someone else? All of us together,
                  in and out of government, must bear the burden. The solutions we seek must be equitable,
                  with no one group singled out to pay a higher price.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We hear much of special interest groups. Our concern must be for
                     a special interest group that has been too long neglected. It knows no sectional
                     boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions, and it crosses political party lines. It
                     is made up of men and women who raise our food, patrol our streets, man our mines
                     and our factories, teach our children, keep our homes, and heal us when we are
                     sick—professionals, industrialists, shopkeepers, clerks, cabbies, and truckdrivers.
                     They are, in short, "We the people," this breed called
                     Americans.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">Well, this administration's objective will be a healthy,
                     vigorous, growing economy that provides equal opportunity for all Americans, with
                     no
                     barriers born of bigotry or discrimination.</span>
                  <span class="jobs-N">Putting America back to work means putting all Americans back to
                     work.</span>
                  <span class="economy-N">Ending inflation means freeing all Americans from the terror of
                     runaway living costs. All must share in the productive work of this "new beginning"
                     and all must share in the bounty of a revived economy.</span> With the idealism
                  and fair play which are the core of our system and our strength, we can have a strong
                  and prosperous America at peace with itself and the world.</p>
               
               
               <p>So, as we begin, let us take inventory. We are a nation that has a government—not
                  the other way around. And this makes us special among the nations of the Earth.
                  <span class="democracy">Our Government has no power except that granted it by the people. It is
                     time to check and reverse the growth of government which shows signs of having grown
                     beyond the consent of the governed.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">It is my intention to curb the size and influence of the Federal
                     establishment and to demand recognition of the distinction between the powers
                     granted to the Federal Government and those reserved to the States or to the people.
                     All of us need to be reminded that the Federal Government did not create the States;
                     the States created the Federal Government.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Now, so there will be no misunderstanding, it is not my intention to
                     do away with government. It is, rather, to make it work—work with us, not over us;
                     to stand by our side, not ride on our back. Government can and must provide
                     opportunity, not smother it; foster productivity, not stifle
                     it.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>If we look to the answer as to why, for so many years, we achieved so much,
                  prospered as no other people on Earth, it was because here, in this land, we unleashed
                  the energy and individual genius of man to a greater extent than has ever been done
                  before. Freedom and the dignity of the individual have been more available and assured
                  here than in any other place on Earth. The price for this freedom at times has been
                  high, but we have never been unwilling to pay that price.</p>
               
               
               <p>It is no coincidence that our present troubles parallel and are proportionate to
                  the intervention and intrusion in our lives that result from unnecessary and excessive
                  growth of government. <span class="unity-P">It is time for us to realize that we are too great
                     a nation to limit ourselves to small dreams. We are not, as some would have us
                     believe, doomed to an inevitable decline. I do not believe in a fate that will fall
                     on us no matter what we do. I do believe in a fate that will fall on us if we do
                     nothing. So, with all the creative energy at our command, let us begin an era of
                     national renewal. Let us renew our determination, our courage, and our strength. And
                     let us renew our faith and our hope.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We have every right to dream heroic dreams. Those who say that we
                     are in a time when there are no heroes just don't know where to look. You can see
                     heroes every day going in and out of factory gates. Others, a handful in number,
                     produce enough food to feed all of us and then the world beyond. You meet heroes
                     across a counter—and they are on both sides of that counter. There are entrepreneurs
                     with faith in themselves and faith in an idea who create new jobs, new wealth and
                     opportunity. They are individuals and families whose taxes support the Government
                     and whose voluntary gifts support church, charity, culture, art, and education.
                     Their patriotism is quiet but deep. Their values sustain our national
                     life.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">I have used the words "they" and "their" in speaking of these
                     heroes. I could say "you" and "your" because I am addressing the heroes of whom I
                     speak—you, the citizens of this blessed land. Your dreams, your hopes, your goals
                     are going to be the dreams, the hopes, and the goals of this administration, so help
                     me God.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We shall reflect the compassion that is so much a part of your makeup. <span class="unity-N">How can we love our country and not love our countrymen, and loving them,
                     reach out a hand when they fall, heal them when they are sick, and provide
                     opportunities to make them self-sufficient so they will be equal in fact and not
                     just in theory?</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Can we solve the problems confronting us? Well, the answer is an unequivocal and
                  emphatic "yes." To paraphrase Winston Churchill, <span class="economy-P">I did not take the oath I have just
                     taken with the intention of presiding over the dissolution of the world's strongest
                     economy.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-N">In the days ahead I will propose removing the roadblocks that
                     have slowed our economy and reduced productivity.</span> Steps will be taken
                  aimed at restoring the balance between the various levels of government. Progress
                  may be
                  slow—measured in inches and feet, not miles—but we will progress. <span class="economy-N">Is
                     it time to reawaken this industrial giant</span>, <span class="democracy">to get government
                     back within its means</span>, and <span class="tax">to lighten our punitive tax
                     burden</span>. And these will be our first priorities, and on these principles, there
                  will be no compromise.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">On the eve of our struggle for independence a man who might have
                     been one of the greatest among the Founding Fathers, Dr. Joseph Warren, President
                     of
                     the Massachusetts Congress, said to his fellow Americans, "Our country is in danger,
                     but not to be despaired of.... On you depend the fortunes of America. You are to
                     decide the important questions upon which rests the happiness and the liberty of
                     millions yet unborn. Act worthy of yourselves."</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Well, I believe we, the Americans of today, are ready to act
                     worthy of ourselves, ready to do what must be done to ensure happiness and liberty
                     for ourselves, our children and our children's children.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And as we renew ourselves here in our own land, we will be seen
                     as having greater strength throughout the world. We will again be the exemplar of
                     freedom and a beacon of hope for those who do not now have
                     freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">To those neighbors and allies who share our freedom, we will
                     strengthen our historic ties and assure them of our support and firm commitment. We
                     will match loyalty with loyalty. We will strive for mutually beneficial relations.
                     We will not use our friendship to impose on their sovereignty, for our own
                     sovereignty is not for sale.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">As for the enemies of freedom, those who are potential adversaries,
                     they will be reminded that peace is the highest aspiration of the American people.
                     We will negotiate for it, sacrifice for it; we will not surrender for it—now or
                     ever.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Our forbearance should never be misunderstood. Our reluctance for conflict should
                  not be misjudged as a failure of will. <span class="war-P">When action is required to preserve
                     our national security, we will act.</span> We will maintain sufficient strength to
                  prevail if need be, knowing that if we do so we have the best chance of never having
                  to
                  use that strength.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Above all, we must realize that no arsenal, or no weapon in the
                     arsenals of the world, is so formidable as the will and moral courage of free men
                     and women. It is a weapon our adversaries in today's world do not have. It is a
                     weapon that we as Americans do have.</span> Let that be understood by those who
                  practice terrorism and prey upon their neighbors.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="religion">I am told that tens of thousands of prayer meetings are being held on
                     this day, and for that I am deeply grateful. We are a nation under God, and I
                     believe God intended for us to be free. It would be fitting and good, I think, if
                     on
                     each Inauguration Day in future years it should be declared a day of
                     prayer.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>This is the first time in history that this ceremony has been held, as you have
                  been told, on this West Front of the Capitol. Standing here, one faces a magnificent
                  vista, opening up on this city's special beauty and history. At the end of this open
                  mall are those shrines to the giants on whose shoulders we stand.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">Directly in front of me, the monument to a monumental man: George
                     Washington, Father of our country. A man of humility who came to greatness
                     reluctantly. He led America out of revolutionary victory into infant nationhood. Off
                     to one side, the stately memorial to Thomas Jefferson. The Declaration of
                     Independence flames with his eloquence.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">And then beyond the Reflecting Pool the dignified columns of the
                     Lincoln Memorial. Whoever would understand in his heart the meaning of America will
                     find it in the life of Abraham Lincoln.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Beyond those monuments to heroism is the Potomac River, and <span class="war-N">on the
                     far shore the sloping hills of Arlington National Cemetery with its row on row of
                     simple white markers bearing crosses or Stars of David. They add up to only a tiny
                     fraction of the price that has been paid for our freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Each one of those markers is a monument to the kinds of hero I spoke of earlier.
                  <span class="war-N">Their lives ended in places called Belleau Wood, The Argonne, Omaha
                     Beach, Salerno and halfway around the world on Guadalcanal, Tarawa, Pork Chop Hill,
                     the Chosin Reservoir, and in a hundred rice paddies and jungles of a place called
                     Vietnam.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Under one such marker lies a young man—Martin Treptow—who left his
                     job in a small town barber shop in 1917 to go to France with the famed Rainbow
                     Division. There, on the western front, he was killed trying to carry a message
                     between battalions under heavy artillery fire.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We are told that on his body was found a diary. <span class="unity-P">On the flyleaf
                     under the heading, "My Pledge," he had written these words: "America must win this
                     war. Therefore, I will work, I will save, I will sacrifice, I will endure, I will
                     fight cheerfully and do my utmost, as if the issue of the whole struggle depended
                     on
                     me alone."</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">The crisis we are facing today does not require of us the kind of
                     sacrifice that Martin Treptow and so many thousands of others were called upon to
                     make.</span>
                  <span class="unity-P">It does require, however, our best effort, and our willingness to
                     believe in ourselves and to believe in our capacity to perform great deeds; to
                     believe that together, with God's help, we can and will resolve the problems which
                     now confront us.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And, after all, why shouldn't we believe that? We are
                     Americans.</span> God bless you, and thank you.</p>
               </div>
         <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Monday, January 21, 1985</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>Senator Mathias, Chief Justice Burger, Vice President Bush, Speaker O'Neill,
                  Senator Dole, Reverend Clergy, members of my family and friends, and my fellow
                  citizens:</p>
               
               
               <p>This day has been made brighter with the presence here of one who, for a time,
                  has been absent—Senator John Stennis.</p>
               
               
               <p>God bless you and welcome back.</p>
               
               
               <p>There is, however, one who is not with us today: Representative Gillis Long of
                  Louisiana left us last night. I wonder if we could all join in a moment of silent
                  prayer. (Moment of silent prayer.) Amen.</p>
               
               
               <p>There are no words adequate to express my thanks for the great honor that you
                  have bestowed on me. I will do my utmost to be deserving of your trust.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">This is, as Senator Mathias told us, the 50th time that we the people have
                     celebrated this historic occasion. When the first President, George Washington, placed
                     his hand upon the Bible, he stood less than a single day's journey by horseback from
                     raw, untamed wilderness. There were 4 million Americans in a union of 13 States. Today
                     we are 60 times as many in a union of 50 States. We have lighted the
                     world with our inventions, gone to the aid of mankind wherever in the world there
                     was a cry for help, journeyed to the Moon and safely returned. So much has changed.
                     And yet we stand together as we did two centuries ago.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">When I took this oath four years ago, I did so in a time of economic stress.
                     Voices were raised saying we had to look to our past for the greatness and glory.
                     But
                     we, the present-day Americans, are not given to looking backward. In
                     this blessed land, there is always a better tomorrow.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Four years ago, I spoke to you of a new beginning and we have accomplished that.
                  But in another sense, our new beginning is a continuation of that beginning created
                  two
                  centuries ago when, for the first time in history, government, the people said, was
                  not
                  our master, it is our servant; its only power that which we the people allow it to
                  have.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">That system has never failed us, but, for a time, we failed the system.
                     We asked things of government that government was not equipped to give.
                     We yielded authority to the National Government that properly belonged to States or
                     to
                     local governments or to the people themselves. We allowed taxes and inflation to rob
                     us
                     of our earnings and savings and watched the great industrial machine that had made
                     us
                     the most productive people on Earth slow down and the number of unemployed
                     increase.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>By 1980, we knew it was time to renew our faith, to strive with all our strength
                  toward the ultimate in individual freedom consistent with an orderly
                  society.</p>
               
               
               <p>We believed then and now there are no limits to growth and human progress when
                  men and women are free to follow their dreams.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">And we were right to believe that. Tax rates have been reduced,
                     inflation cut dramatically, and more people are employed than ever before in our
                     history.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We are creating a nation once again vibrant, robust, and alive. But there are
                  many mountains yet to climb. We will not rest until every American enjoys the fullness
                  of freedom, dignity, and opportunity as our birthright. It is our birthright as citizens
                  of this great Republic, and we'll meet this challenge.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">These will be years when Americans have restored their confidence
                     and tradition of progress; when our values of faith, family, work, and
                     neighborhood were restated for a modern age;</span> <span class="economy-P">when our economy was
                     finally freed from government's grip</span>; <span class="war-N">when we made sincere efforts at
                     meaningful arms reduction, rebuilding our defenses, our economy,</span> <span class="infrastructure">and
                     developing new technologies</span>, <span class="diplomacy">and helped preserve peace
                     in a troubled world</span>; <span class="democracy">when Americans courageously supported the struggle
                     for liberty, self-government, and free enterprise throughout the world, and
                     turned the tide of history away from totalitarian darkness and into the warm
                     sunlight of human freedom.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>My fellow citizens, our Nation is poised for greatness. We must do what we know
                  is right and do it with all our might. Let history say of us, "These were golden
                  years—when the American Revolution was reborn, when freedom gained new life, when
                  America reached for her best."</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Our two-party system has served us well over the years, but never
                     better than in those times of great challenge when we came together not as Democrats
                     or Republicans, but as Americans united in a common cause.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Two of our Founding Fathers, a Boston lawyer named Adams and a Virginia planter
                  named Jefferson, members of that remarkable group who met in Independence Hall and
                  dared
                  to think they could start the world over again, left us an important lesson. They
                  had
                  become political rivals in the Presidential election of 1800. Then years later, when
                  both were retired, and age had softened their anger, they began to speak to each other
                  again through letters. A bond was reestablished between those two who had helped create
                  this government of ours.</p>
               
               
               <p>In 1826, the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, they both died.
                  They died on the same day, within a few hours of each other, and that day was the
                  Fourth
                  of July.</p>
               
               
               <p>In one of those letters exchanged in the sunset of their lives, Jefferson wrote:
                  "It carries me back to the times when, beset with difficulties and dangers, we were
                  fellow laborers in the same cause, struggling for what is most valuable to man, his
                  right to self-government. Laboring always at the same oar, with some wave ever ahead
                  threatening to overwhelm us, and yet passing harmless...we rode through the storm
                  with
                  heart and hand."</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Well, with heart and hand, let us stand as one today: One
                     people under God determined that our future shall be worthy of our past.</span> <span class="tax">As we do, we
                     must not repeat the well-intentioned errors of our past. We must never again abuse
                     the
                     trust of working men and women, by sending their earnings on a futile chase after
                     the
                     spiraling demands of a bloated Federal Establishment. You elected us in 1980 to end
                     this
                     prescription for disaster, and I don't believe you reelected us in 1984 to reverse
                     course.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">At the heart of our efforts is one idea vindicated by 25 straight 
                     months of economic growth: Freedom and incentives unleash the drive and
                     entrepreneurial genius that are the core of human progress. We have begun
                     to increase the rewards for work, savings, and investment; reduce the increase in
                     the
                     cost and size of government and its interference in people's lives.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="tax">We must simplify our tax system, make it more fair, and bring the rates down
                     for all who work and earn.</span> <span class="jobs-N">We must think anew and move with a new boldness, so
                     every American who seeks work can find work; so the least among us shall have an equal
                     chance to achieve the greatest things</span>—<span class="public_health-P">to be heroes who heal our
                     sick, feed the hungry</span>, <span class="war-N">protect peace
                     among nations, and leave this world a better place.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">The time has come for a new American emancipation—a great
                     national drive to tear down economic barriers and liberate the spirit of enterprise
                     in the most distressed areas of our country. My friends, together we can
                     do this, and do it we must, so help me God.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>From new freedom will spring new opportunities for growth, a more productive,
                  fulfilled and united people, and a stronger America—an America that will lead the
                  technological revolution, and also open its mind and heart and soul to the treasures
                  of
                  literature, music, and poetry, and the values of faith, courage, and love.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="economy-P">A dynamic economy, with more citizens working and paying taxes, will be our
                     strongest tool to bring down budget deficits. But an almost unbroken 50 years of deficit
                     spending has finally brought us to a time of reckoning. We have come to a turning
                     point,
                     a moment for hard decisions. I have asked the Cabinet and my staff a question, and
                     now I
                     put the same question to all of you: If not us, who? And if not now, when? It must
                     be
                     done by all of us going forward with a program aimed at reaching a balanced budget.
                     We
                     can then begin reducing the national debt.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">I will shortly submit a budget to the Congress aimed at freezing government
                     program spending for the next year. Beyond that, we must take further steps to
                     permanently control Government's power to tax and spend.</span> <span class="tax">We must act now to protect
                     future generations from Government's desire to spend its citizens' money and tax
                     them into servitude when the bills come due. Let us make it unconstitutional for the
                     
                     Federal Government to spend more than the Federal Government takes in.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">We have already started returning to the people and to State and local
                     governments responsibilities better handled by them. Now, there is a place for the
                     Federal Government in matters of social compassion. But our fundamental goals must
                     be to
                     reduce dependency and upgrade the dignity of those who are infirm or disadvantaged.</span> 
                  <span class="economy-P">And here a growing economy and support from family and community offer our best chance
                     for a
                     society where compassion is a way of life, where the old and infirm are cared for,
                     the
                     young and, yes, the unborn protected, and the unfortunate looked after and made
                     self-sufficient.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">And there is another area where the Federal Government can play a part. 
                     As an older American, I remember a time when people of different race, creed,
                     or ethnic origin in our land found hatred and prejudice installed in social custom
                     and, yes, in law.</span> <span class="unity-P">There is no story more heartening in our history than the
                     progress that we have made toward the "brotherhood of man" that God intended for us.
                     Let us resolve there will be no turning back or hesitation on the road to an America
                     rich 
                     in dignity and abundant with opportunity for all our citizens.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">Let us resolve that we the people will build an American
                     opportunity society in which all of us—white and black, rich and poor, young and
                     old—will go forward together arm in arm. Again, let us remember that though
                     our heritage is one of blood lines from every corner of the Earth, we are all Americans
                     pledged to carry on this last, best hope of man on Earth.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I have spoken of our domestic goals and the limitations which we should put on
                  our National Government. Now let me turn to a task which is the primary responsibility
                  of National Government—the safety and security of our people.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Today, we utter no prayer more fervently than the ancient prayer for peace on
                     Earth. Yet history has shown that peace will not come, nor will our freedom be
                     preserved, by good will alone. There are those in the world who scorn our vision of
                     human dignity and freedom.</span> One nation, the Soviet Union, has conducted the greatest
                  military buildup in the history of man, building arsenals of awesome offensive
                  weapons.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">We have made progress in restoring our defense capability. But much remains to be
                     done. There must be no wavering by us, nor any doubts by others, that America will
                     meet
                     her responsibilities to remain free, secure, and at peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">There is only one way safely and legitimately to reduce the cost of national
                     security, and that is to reduce the need for it. And this we are trying to do in
                     negotiations with the Soviet Union. We are not just discussing limits on a further
                     increase of nuclear weapons. We seek, instead, to reduce their number. We seek the
                     total
                     elimination one day of nuclear weapons from the face of the Earth.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">Now, for decades, we and the Soviets have lived under the threat of mutual
                     assured destruction; if either resorted to the use of nuclear weapons, the other could
                     retaliate and destroy the one who had started it. Is there either logic or morality
                     in
                     believing that if one side threatens to kill tens of millions of our people, our only
                     recourse is to threaten killing tens of millions of theirs?</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">I have approved a research program to find, if we can, a security shield that
                     would destroy nuclear missiles before they reach their target. It wouldn't kill people,
                     it would destroy weapons. It wouldn't militarize space, it would help demilitarize
                     the
                     arsenals of Earth. It would render nuclear weapons obsolete. We will meet with the
                     Soviets, hoping that we can agree on a way to rid the world of the threat of nuclear
                     destruction.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">We strive for peace and security, heartened by the changes all around us. Since
                     the turn of the century, the number of democracies in the world has grown fourfold.
                     Human freedom is on the march, and nowhere more so than our own hemisphere. Freedom
                     is
                     one of the deepest and noblest aspirations of the human spirit. People, worldwide,
                     hunger for the right of self-determination, for those inalienable rights that make
                     for
                     human dignity and progress.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>America must remain freedom's staunchest friend, for freedom is
                  our best ally.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">And it is the world's only hope, to conquer poverty and preserve peace. 
                     Every blow we inflict against poverty will be a blow against its dark
                     allies of oppression and war. Every victory for human freedom will be a victory for
                     world peace.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">So we go forward today, a nation still mighty in its youth and powerful in its
                     purpose. With our alliances strengthened, with our economy leading the world to a
                     new
                     age of economic expansion, we look forward to a world rich in possibilities. And all
                     this because we have worked and acted together, not as members of political parties,
                     but
                     as Americans.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>My friends, we live in a world that is lit by lightning. So much is changing and
                  will change, but so much endures, and transcends time.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">History is a ribbon, always unfurling; history is a journey. And as we continue
                     our journey, we think of those who traveled before us. We stand together
                     again at the steps of this symbol of our democracy—or we would have been standing
                     at
                     the steps if it hadn't gotten so cold. Now we are standing inside this
                     symbol of our democracy. Now we hear again the echoes of our past: a general falls
                     to
                     his knees in the hard snow of Valley Forge; a lonely President paces the darkened
                     halls,
                     and ponders his struggle to preserve the Union; the men of the Alamo call out
                     encouragement to each other; a settler pushes west and sings a song, and the song
                     echoes
                     out forever and fills the unknowing air.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">It is the American sound. It is hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic, daring, decent,
                     and fair. That's our heritage; that is our song. We sing it still.</span> <span class="religion">For all our problems,
                     our differences, we are together as of old, as we raise our voices to the God who
                     is the
                     Author of this most tender music. And may He continue to hold us close as we fill
                     the
                     world with our sound—sound in unity, affection, and love—one people under God, dedicated
                     to the dream of freedom that He has placed in the human heart, called upon now to
                     pass
                     that dream on to a waiting and hopeful world.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>God bless you and may God bless America.</p>
               </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="carter_1.xhtml">Jimmy Carter</a></li>
            <li><a href="hwbush_1.xhtml">George H.W. Bush</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>