<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" --> 
      
      <h2>Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1905</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container"><button type="button" class="collapsible">Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1905</button><div class="content">
               
               <p>MY fellow-citizens,
                  <span class="religion">no people on earth have more cause to be thankful than ours, and this is said reverently,
                     in
                     no spirit of boastfulness in our own strength, but with gratitude to the Giver of
                     Good who
                     has blessed us with the conditions which have enabled us to achieve so large a measure
                     of
                     well-being and of happiness.</span> <span class="unity-P">To us as a people it has been granted to lay the foundations of
                     our national life in a new continent. We are the heirs of the ages, and yet we have
                     had to
                     pay few of the penalties which in old countries are exacted by the dead hand of a
                     bygone
                     civilization. We have not been obliged to fight for our existence against any alien
                     race;
                     and yet our life has called for the vigor and effort without which the manlier and
                     hardier
                     virtues wither away.</span> Under such conditions it would be our own fault if we failed; and the
                  success which we have had in the past, the success which we confidently believe the
                  future
                  will bring, should cause in us no feeling of vainglory, but rather a deep and abiding
                  realization of all which life has offered us; <span class="democracy">a full acknowledgment of the responsibility
                     which is ours; and a fixed determination to show that under a free government a mighty
                     people can thrive best, alike as regards the things of the body and the things of
                     the
                     soul.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Much has been given us, and much will rightfully be expected from us. We have duties
                  to others and duties to ourselves; and we can shirk neither. <span class="diplomacy">We have become a great nation,
                     forced by the fact of its greatness into relations with the other nations of the earth,
                     and
                     we must behave as beseems a people with such responsibilities.Toward all other nations,
                     large and small, our attitude must be one of cordial and sincere friendship. We must
                     show
                     not only in our words, but in our deeds, that we are earnestly desirous of securing
                     their
                     good will by acting toward them in a spirit of just and generous recognition of all
                     their
                     rights. But justice and generosity in a nation, as in an individual, count most when
                     shown
                     not by the weak but by the strong. While ever careful to refrain from wrongdoing others,
                     we
                     must be no less insistent that we are not wronged ourselves.</span> <span class="war-N">We wish peace, but we wish the
                     peace of justice, the peace of righteousness. We wish it because we think it is right
                     and
                     not because we are afraid. No weak nation that acts manfully and justly should ever
                     have
                     cause to fear us, and no strong power should ever be able to single us out as a subject
                     for
                     insolent aggression.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">Our relations with the other powers of the world are important; but still more
                     important are our relations among ourselves. Such growth in wealth, in population,
                     and in
                     power as this nation has seen during the century and a quarter of its national life
                     is
                     inevitably accompanied by a like growth in the problems which are ever before every
                     nation
                     that rises to greatness. Power invariably means both responsibility and danger. Our
                     forefathers faced certain perils which we have outgrown. We now face other perils,
                     the very
                     existence of which it was impossible that they should foresee. Modern life is both
                     complex
                     and intense, and the tremendous changes wrought by the extraordinary industrial development
                     of the last half century are felt in every fiber of our social and political being.</span> <span class="democracy">Never
                     before have men tried so vast and formidable an experiment as that of administering
                     the
                     affairs of a continent under the forms of a Democratic republic.</span> <span class="economy-P">The conditions which have
                     told for our marvelous material well-being, which have developed to a very high degree
                     our
                     energy, self-reliance, and individual initiative, have also brought the care and anxiety
                     inseparable from the accumulation of great wealth in industrial centers. Upon the
                     success of
                     our experiment much depends, not only as regards our own welfare, but as regards the
                     welfare
                     of mankind.</span> <span class="democracy">If we fail, the cause of free self-government throughout the world will rock to
                     its foundations, and therefore our responsibility is heavy, to ourselves, to the world
                     as it
                     is to-day, and to the generations yet unborn. There is no good reason why we should
                     fear the
                     future, but there is every reason why we should face it seriously, neither hiding
                     from
                     ourselves the gravity of the problems before us nor fearing to approach these problems
                     with
                     the unbending, unflinching purpose to solve them aright.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>Yet, after all, though the problems are new, though the tasks set before us differ
                  from the tasks set before our fathers who founded and preserved this Republic, the
                  spirit in
                  which these tasks must be undertaken and these problems faced, if our duty is to be
                  well
                  done, remains essentially unchanged. <span class="democracy">We know that self-government is difficult. We know that
                     no people needs such high traits of character as that people which seeks to govern
                     its
                     affairs aright through the freely expressed will of the freemen who compose it.</span> <span class="unity-P">But we have
                     faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men of the mighty past.
                     They did
                     their work, they left us the splendid heritage we now enjoy. We in our turn have an
                     assured
                     confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our
                     children and our children's children. To do so we must show, not merely in great crises,
                     but
                     in the everyday affairs of life, the qualities of practical intelligence, of courage,
                     of
                     hardihood, and endurance, and above all the power of devotion to a lofty ideal, which
                     made
                     great the men who founded this Republic in the days of Washington, which made great
                     the men
                     who preserved this Republic in the days of Abraham Lincoln.</span></p>
               </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="mckinley_2.xhtml">William McKinley</a></li>
            <li><a href="taft_1.xhtml">William Taft</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>