<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css" />
      <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"/>
   </head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      <h2>Donald Trump Inaugural Address Friday, January 20,2017</h2>
      <div class="tog-text">
      <div id="speech" class="flex-container">

         <p>Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, President Clinton, President Bush, President
            Obama, fellow Americans, and people of the world, thank you. <span class="unity-N">We,
               the citizens of America, are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our
               country and restore its promise for all of our people. Together we will determine the
               course of America and the world for many, many years to come.</span></p>


         <p>We will face challenges. We will confront hardships, but we will get the job done. </p>


         <p>Every 4 years we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer of
            power. <span class="pred-P">And we are grateful to President Obama and First Lady
               Michelle Obama for their gracious aid throughout this transition. They have been
               magnificent.</span></p>


         <p>Thank you.</p>


         <p><span class="democracy">Today’s ceremony, however, has very special meaning because
               today we are not merely transferring power from one administration to another or
               from one party to another, but we are transferring power from Washington, DC, and
               giving it back to you, the people.</span></p>


         <p>For too long, a small group in our Nation’s Capital has reaped the rewards of govern-
            ment while the people have borne the cost. <span class="jobs-N">Washington flourished,
               but the people did not share in its wealth. Politicians prospered, but the jobs
               left and the factories closed. The establishment protected itself, but not the
               citizens of our country. Their victories have not been your victories.</span> Their
            triumphs have not been your triumphs, and while they celebrated in our Nation’s Capital, 
            there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land.</p>


         <p><span class="unity-P">That all changes starting right here and right now, because this
               moment is your moment. It belongs to you. It belongs to everyone gathered here
               today and everyone watching all across America. This is your day. This is your
               celebration. This, the United States of America, is your country.</span></p>


         <p>What truly matters is not which party controls our government but whether our gov-
            ernment is controlled by the people. <span class="unity-P">January 20, 2017, will be
               remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this Nation again.</span></p>


         <p>The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. Everyone is
            listening to you now. You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic
            movement, the likes of which the world has never seen before. At the center of this mo-
            ment is a crucial conviction that a nation exists to serve its citizens. <span
               class="education-N">Americans want great schools for their children</span>, safe
            neighborhoods for their families, and <span class="jobs-N">good jobs for
               themselves</span>.</p>


         <p>These are just and reasonable demands of righteous people and a righteous public. But
            for too many of our citizens, a different reality exists: <span class="economy-N"
               >mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities</span>, <span
               class="infrastructure">rusted-out factories scattered like tombstones across the
               landscape of our Nation</span>, <span class="education-N">an education system flush
               with cash but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all
               knowledge</span>, <span class="criminal_justice-N">the crime and the gangs and the
               drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized
               potential</span>.</p>


         <p>This American carnage stops right here and stops right now. <span class="unity-N">We are
               one Nation and their pain is our pain. Their dreams are our dreams. Their success
               will be our success. We share one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny. The oath
               of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all Americans.</span>
            <span class="diplomacy">For many decades we have enriched foreign industry at the
               expense of American industry, subsidized the armies of other countries, while
               allowing for the very sad depletion of our military.</span></p>


         <p>We have defended other nations’ borders, while refusing to defend our own, and <span
               class="economy-N">spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas while America’s
               infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay</span>. We have made other
            countries rich while the wealth, strength, and confidence of our country has dissipated
            over the horizon.</p>


         <p><span class="economy-N">One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, with
               not even a thought about the millions and millions of American workers that were
               left behind. The wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then
               redistributed all across the world.</span></p>


         <p>But that is the past. <span class="unity-P">Now, we are looking only to the future. We
               assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city, in every
               foreign capital, and in every hall of power. From this day forward, a new vision will
               govern our land. From this day forward, it is going to be only America first—America
               first.</span> Every decision <span class="trade">on trade</span>, <span class="tax-"
               >on taxes</span>, <span class="immigration-N">on immigration</span>, <span
               class="diplomacy">on foreign affairs</span>
            <span class="jobs-P">will be made to benefit American workers and American
               families.</span></p>


         <p><span class="immigration-N">We must protect our borders from the ravages of other
               countries</span> making our products, stealing our companies, and <span
               class="jobs-N">destroying our jobs</span>. Protection will lead to great prosperity
            and strength. I will fight for you with every breath in my body, and I will never, ever
            let you down. <span class="unity-P">America will start winning again, winning like never
               before. We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring
               back our wealth. We will bring back our dreams.</span></p>


         <p><span class="infrastructure">We will build new roads and highways and bridges and
               airports and tunnels and railways all across our wonderful Nation.</span>
            <span class="jobs-P">We will get our people off of welfare and back to work rebuilding
               our country with American hands and American labor.</span> We will follow two simple
            rules: Buy American and hire American.</p>


         <p><span class="diplomacy">We will seek friendship and good will with the nations of the
               world, but we do so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put
               their own interests first.</span></p>


         <p>We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone but rather to let it shine as an
            example. We will shine for everyone to follow. We will reinforce old alliances and
            form new ones and <span class="war-P">unite the civilized world against radical Islamic
               terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the Earth.</span></p>


         <p><span class="unity-P">At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the
               United States of America, and through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover
               our loyalty to each other. When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room
               for prejudice</span>. <span class="economy">The Bible tells us how good and pleasant
               it is when God’s people live together in unity.</span> We must speak our minds
            openly, debate our disagreements honestly, but always pursue solidarity.</p>


         <p><span class="unity-P">When America is united, America is totally unstoppable</span>.
            There should be no fear. We are protected, and we will always be protected. We will be
            protected by the great men and women of our military and law enforcement and, most
            importantly, we will <span class="economy">be protected by God</span>.</p>


         <p>Finally, we must think big and dream even bigger. In America, we understand that a na-
            tion is only living as long as it is striving.</p>


         <p><span class="unity-N">We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no
               action, constantly complaining but never doing anything about it. The time for
               empty talk is over. Now arrives the hour of action. Do not allow anyone to tell you
               that it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of
               America. We will not fail. Our country will thrive and prosper again.</span></p>


         <p>We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock the mysteries of space, to
            free the Earth from the miseries of disease, and to harness the energies, industries,
            and technologies of tomorrow. <span class="unity-P"> A new national pride will stir our
               soul, lift our sights, and heal our divisions.</span></p>


         <p><span class="war-P">It is time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never
               forget—that whether we are Black or Brown or White, we all bleed the same red blood
               of patriots.</span> We all enjoy the same glorious freedoms, and we all salute the
            same great American flag.</p>


         <p>Whether a child is born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or the windswept plains of Ne-
            braska, they look up at the same night sky, they fill their heart with the same dreams,
            and <span class="economy">they are infused with the breath of life by the same Almighty
               Creator</span>.</p>


         <p><span class="unity-P">So to all Americans in every city near and far, small and large,
               from mountain to mountain, from ocean to ocean, hear these words. You will never be
               ignored again. Your voice, your hopes, and your dreams will define our American
               destiny, and your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way.
               Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America wealthy again. We
               will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And, yes, together we
               will make America great again.</span></p>


         <p>Thank you. God bless you, and God bless America. Thank you.</p>
      </div>
      <!--<script>
            const button = document.createElement('button');
            button.innerText = 'Barack Obama';
            button.id = 'ObamaButton';
            button.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "obama_1.xhtml"
            });
            button.style.marginLeft = '1%';
            button.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button);
            
            const button1 = document.createElement('button');
            button1.innerText = 'Joseph R. Biden';
            button1.id = 'BidenButton';
            button1.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "biden_1.xhtml"
            });
            button1.style.marginLeft = '72.4%';
            button1.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button1);</script>-->
 
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
               <ul>                 
                  <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"
                  />Negative<br/></li> </ul></li>                                    
                  <li><b>Economy</b><ul>                
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul></li>                                  
                  <li><b>War</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>  </ul></li>                                    
                  <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"
                  />Negative<br/></li> </ul> </li>                                    
                  <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>  </ul></li>                                    
                  <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>  </ul></li>                                   
                  <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>  </ul></li>                                  
                  <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"
                  />Negative<br/></li>   </ul></li>                 
                  <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"
                  />Positive<br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"
                  />Negative<br/></li> </ul> </li>                                    
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"
                  /><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"
                  /><b>Race</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"
                  /><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"
                  /><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"
                  /><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"
                  /><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"
                  /><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"
                  /><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
                  <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"
                  /><b>Tax</b><br/></li>                 
               </ul>
            </div>
         </div>
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="obama_1.xhtml">Barack Obama</a></li>
            <li><a href="biden_1.xhtml">Joe Biden</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>
