<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
      <head>
            <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css" />
            <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script>
      </head>
      <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
            <h2>Harry S. Truman Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20, 1949</h2>
            <div id="speech">

                  <p>Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, and fellow citizens, I accept with
                        humility the honor which the American people have conferred upon me. I
                        accept it with a deep resolve to do all that I can for the welfare of this
                        Nation and for the peace of the world.</p>


                  <p><span class="unity-P">In performing the duties of my office, I need the help
                              and prayers of every one of you. I ask for your encouragement and your
                              support. The tasks we face are difficult, and we can accomplish them
                              only if we work together.</span></p>


                  <p>Each period of our national history has had its special challenges. Those that
                        confront us now are as momentous as any in the past. Today marks the
                        beginning not only of a new administration, but of a period that will be
                        eventful, perhaps decisive, for us and for the world.</p>


                  <p><span class="war-N">It may be our lot to experience, and in large measure to
                              bring about, a major turning point in the long history of the human
                              race. The first half of this century has been marked by unprecedented
                              and brutal attacks on the rights of man, and by the two most frightful
                              wars in history. The supreme need of our time is for men to learn to
                              live together in peace and harmony.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">The peoples of the earth face the future with grave
                              uncertainty, composed almost equally of great hopes and great fears.
                              In this time of doubt, they look to the United States as never before
                              for good will, strength, and wise leadership.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">It is fitting, therefore, that we take this occasion to
                              proclaim to the world the essential principles of the faith by which
                              we live, and to declare our aims to all peoples.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">The American people stand firm in the faith which has
                              inspired this Nation from the beginning. We believe that all men have
                              a right to equal justice under law and equal opportunity to share in
                              the common good. We believe that all men have the right to freedom of
                              thought and expression.</span>
                        <span class="economy">We believe that all men are created equal because they
                              are created in the image of God.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy">From this faith we will not be moved.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">The American people desire, and are determined to work
                              for, a world in which all nations and all peoples are free to govern
                              themselves as they see fit, and to achieve a decent and satisfying
                              life. Above all else, our people desire, and are determined to work
                              for, peace on earth--a just and lasting peace--based on genuine
                              agreement freely arrived at by equals.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">In the pursuit of these aims, the United States and
                              other like-minded nations find themselves directly opposed by a regime
                              with contrary aims and a totally different concept of life.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">That regime adheres to a false philosophy which
                              purports to offer freedom, security, and greater opportunity to
                              mankind. Misled by this philosophy, many peoples have sacrificed their
                              liberties only to learn to their sorrow that deceit and mockery,
                              poverty and tyranny, are their reward.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">That false philosophy is communism.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Communism is based on the belief that man is so weak
                              and inadequate that he is unable to govern himself, and therefore
                              requires the rule of strong masters.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the
                              moral and intellectual capacity, as well as the inalienable right, to
                              govern himself with reason and justice.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Communism subjects the individual to arrest without
                              lawful cause, punishment without trial, and forced labor as the
                              chattel of the state. It decrees what information he shall receive,
                              what art he shall produce, what leaders he shall follow, and what
                              thoughts he shall think.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Democracy maintains that government is established for
                              the benefit of the individual, and is charged with the responsibility
                              of protecting the rights of the individual and his freedom in the
                              exercise of his abilities.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Communism maintains that social wrongs can be corrected
                              only by violence.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Democracy has proved that social justice can be
                              achieved through peaceful change.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Communism holds that the world is so deeply divided
                              into opposing classes that war is inevitable.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Democracy holds that free nations can settle
                              differences justly and maintain lasting peace.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">These differences between communism and democracy do
                              not concern the United States alone. People everywhere are coming to
                              realize that what is involved is material well-being, human dignity,
                              and the right to believe in and worship God.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">I state these differences, not to draw issues of belief
                              as such, but because the actions resulting from the Communist
                              philosophy are a threat to the efforts of free nations to bring about
                              world recovery and lasting peace.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Since the end of hostilities, the United States has
                              invested its substance and its energy in a great constructive effort
                              to restore peace, stability, and freedom to the world.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">We have sought no territory and we have imposed our
                              will on none. We have asked for no privileges we would not extend to
                              others.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">We have constantly and vigorously supported the United
                              Nations and related agencies as a means of applying democratic
                              principles to international relations. We have consistently advocated
                              and relied upon peaceful settlement of disputes among
                        nations.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-N">We have made every effort to secure agreement on effective
                              international control of our most powerful weapon, and we have worked
                              steadily for the limitation and control of all armaments.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="trade">We have encouraged, by precept and example, the expansion
                              of world trade on a sound and fair basis.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Almost a year ago, in company with 16 free nations of
                              Europe, we launched the greatest cooperative economic program in
                              history.</span>
                        <span class="democracy">The purpose of that unprecedented effort is to
                              invigorate and strengthen democracy in Europe, so that the free people
                              of that continent can resume their rightful place in the forefront of
                              civilization and can contribute once more to the security and welfare
                              of the world.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">Our efforts have brought new hope to all mankind. We
                              have beaten back despair and defeatism. We have saved a number of
                              countries from losing their liberty. Hundreds of millions of people
                              all over the world now agree with us, that we need not have war--that
                              we can have peace.</span></p>


                  <p>The initiative is ours.</p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">We are moving on with other nations to build an even
                              stronger structure of international order and justice. We shall have
                              as our partners countries which, no longer solely concerned with the
                              problem of national survival, are now working to improve the standards
                              of living of all their people. We are ready to undertake new projects
                              to strengthen the free world.</span></p>


                  <p>In the coming years, our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four
                        major courses of action.</p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">First, we will continue to give unfaltering support to
                              the United Nations and related agencies, and we will continue to
                              search for ways to strengthen their authority and increase their
                              effectiveness. We believe that the United Nations will be strengthened
                              by the new nations which are being formed in lands now advancing
                              toward self-government under democratic principles.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">Second, we will continue our programs for world
                              economic recovery.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">This means, first of all, that we must keep our full
                              weight behind the European recovery program. We are confident of the
                              success of this major venture in world recovery. We believe that our
                              partners in this effort will achieve the status of self-supporting
                              nations once again.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="trade">In addition, we must carry out our plans for reducing the
                              barriers to world trade and increasing its volume. Economic recovery
                              and peace itself depend on increased world trade.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">Third, we will strengthen freedom-loving nations against
                              the dangers of aggression.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">We are now working out with a number of countries a joint
                              agreement designed to strengthen the security of the North Atlantic
                              area. Such an agreement would take the form of a collective defense
                              arrangement within the terms of the United Nations Charter.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">We have already established such a defense pact for the
                              Western Hemisphere by the treaty of Rio de Janeiro.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide
                              unmistakable proof of the joint determination of the free countries to
                              resist armed attack from any quarter. Each country participating in
                              these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common
                              defense.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">If we can make it sufficiently clear, in advance, that any
                              armed attack affecting our national security would be met with
                              overwhelming force, the armed attack might never occur.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="congress-">I hope soon to send to the Senate a treaty respecting
                              the North Atlantic security plan.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="war-P">In addition, we will provide military advice and equipment
                              to free nations which will cooperate with us in the maintenance of
                              peace and security.</span></p>


                  <p>Fourth, we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our
                        scientific advances and industrial progress available for the improvement
                        and growth of underdeveloped areas.</p>


                  <p><span class="public_health-N">More than half the people of the world are living
                              in conditions approaching misery. Their food is inadequate. They are
                              victims of disease.</span>
                        <span class="economy-N">Their economic life is primitive and stagnant. Their
                              poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous
                              areas.</span></p>


                  <p>For the first time in history, humanity possesses the knowledge and the skill
                        to relieve the suffering of these people.</p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">The United States is pre-eminent among nations in the
                              development of industrial and scientific techniques. The material
                              resources which we can afford to use for the assistance of other
                              peoples are limited. But our imponderable resources in technical
                              knowledge are constantly growing and are inexhaustible.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">I believe that we should make available to peace-loving
                              peoples the benefits of our store of technical knowledge in order to
                              help them realize their aspirations for a better life. And, in
                              cooperation with other nations, we should foster capital investment in
                              areas needing development.</span></p>


                  <p>Our aim should be to help the free peoples of the world, through their own
                        efforts, to produce more food, more clothing, more materials for housing,
                        and more mechanical power to lighten their burdens.</p>


                  <p><span class="diplomacy">We invite other countries to pool their technological
                              resources in this undertaking. Their contributions will be warmly
                              welcomed. This should be a cooperative enterprise in which all nations
                              work together through the United Nations and its specialized agencies
                              wherever practicable. It must be a worldwide effort for the
                              achievement of peace, plenty, and freedom.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-N">With the cooperation of business, private capital,
                              agriculture, and labor in this country, this program can greatly
                              increase the industrial activity in other nations and can raise
                              substantially their standards of living.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-N">Such new economic developments must be devised and
                              controlled to benefit the peoples of the areas in which they are
                              established. Guarantees to the investor must be balanced by guarantees
                              in the interest of the people whose resources and whose labor go into
                              these developments.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">The old imperialism--exploitation for foreign
                              profit--has no place in our plans. What we envisage is a program of
                              development based on the concepts of democratic
                        fair-dealing.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="regulation">All countries, including our own, will greatly benefit
                              from a constructive program for the better use of the world's human
                              and natural resources.</span> Experience shows that our commerce with
                        other countries expands as they progress industrially and economically.</p>


                  <p><span class="economy-N">Greater production is the key to prosperity and peace.
                              And the key to greater production is a wider and more vigorous
                              application of modern scientific and technical knowledge.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="unity-N">Only by helping the least fortunate of its members to
                              help themselves can the human family achieve the decent, satisfying
                              life that is the right of all people.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir
                              the peoples of the world into triumphant action, not only against
                              their human oppressors, but also against their ancient
                              enemies--hunger, misery, and despair.</span></p>


                  <p>On the basis of these four major courses of action we hope to help create the
                        conditions that will lead eventually to personal freedom and happiness for
                        all mankind.</p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">If we are to be successful in carrying out these
                              policies, it is clear that we must have continued prosperity in this
                              country and we must keep ourselves strong.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy-P">Slowly but surely we are weaving a world fabric of
                              international security and growing prosperity.</span></p>


                  <p>We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear--even by those who
                        live today in fear under their own governments.</p>


                  <p>We are aided by all who want relief from the lies of propaganda--who desire
                        truth and sincerity.</p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">We are aided by all who desire self-government and a
                              voice in deciding their own affairs.</span></p>


                  <p>We are aided by all who long for economic security--for the security and
                        abundance that men in free societies can enjoy.</p>


                  <p>We are aided by all who desire freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and
                        freedom to live their own lives for useful ends.</p>


                  <p>Our allies are the millions who hunger and thirst after righteousness.</p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">In due time, as our stability becomes manifest, as more
                              and more nations come to know the benefits of democracy and to
                              participate in growing abundance, I believe that those countries which
                              now oppose us will abandon their delusions and join with the free
                              nations of the world in a just settlement of international
                              differences.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">Events have brought our American democracy to new
                              influence and new responsibilities. They will test our courage, our
                              devotion to duty, and our concept of liberty.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="democracy">But I say to all men, what we have achieved in liberty,
                              we will surpass in greater liberty.</span></p>


                  <p><span class="economy">Steadfast in our faith in the Almighty, we will advance
                              toward a world where man's freedom is secure.</span></p>


                  <p>To that end we will devote our strength, our resources, and our firmness of
                        resolve. With God's help, the future of mankind will be assured in a world
                        of justice, harmony, and peace.</p>

                  <div id="buttons"></div>
            </div>
            <script>
            const button = document.createElement('button');
            button.innerText = 'Franklin D. Roosevelt';
            button.id = 'FDRButton';
            button.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "fdr_1.xhtml"
            });
            button.style.marginLeft = '1%';
            button.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button);
            
            const button1 = document.createElement('button');
            button1.innerText = 'Dwight D. Eisenhower';
            button1.id = 'EisenhowerButton';
            button1.addEventListener('click', () => {
                location.href = "eisenhower_1.xhtml"
            });
            button1.style.marginLeft = '82%';
            button1.style.marginBottom = '1%';
            document.getElementById("buttons").appendChild(button1);</script>
      </body>
</html>
