<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Presidential Inaugural Speeches</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/index_css.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/presidents.js"></script><script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/dropdown.js"></script></head>
   <body id="text"><!--#include virtual="../includes/menu_text_active.xhtml" -->
      
      <h2>Woodrow Wilson (1913-1921)</h2>
      
      <div class="tog-text">
         <div id="speech" class="flex-container">
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">First Inaugural Address: Tuesday, March 4,
               1913</button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>There has been a change of government. <span class="congress">It began two years ago, when the
                     House of Representatives became Democratic by a decisive majority. It has now been
                     completed. The Senate about to assemble will also be Democratic.</span> The
                  offices of President and Vice-President have been put into the hands of Democrats.
                  What
                  does the change mean? That is the question that is uppermost in our minds to-day.
                  That
                  is the question I am going to try to answer, in order, if I may, to interpret the
                  occasion.</p>
               
               
               <p>It means much more than the mere success of a party. The success of a party means
                  little except when the Nation is using that party for a large and definite purpose.
                  No
                  one can mistake the purpose for which the Nation now seeks to use the Democratic Party.
                  It seeks to use it to interpret a change in its own plans and point of view. Some
                  old
                  things with which we had grown familiar, and which had begun to creep into the very
                  habit of our thought and of our lives, have altered their aspect as we have latterly
                  looked critically upon them, with fresh, awakened eyes; have dropped their disguises
                  and
                  shown themselves alien and sinister. Some new things, as we look frankly upon them,
                  willing to comprehend their real character, have come to assume the aspect of things
                  long believed in and familiar, stuff of our own convictions. We have been refreshed
                  by a
                  new insight into our own life.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">We see that in many things that life is very great. It is incomparably great in
                     its material aspects, in its body of wealth, in the diversity and sweep of its energy,
                     in the industries which have been conceived and built up by the genius of individual
                     men
                     and the limitless enterprise of groups of men. It is great, also, very great, in its
                     moral force.</span> Nowhere else in the world have noble men and women exhibited in more
                  striking forms the beauty and the energy of sympathy and helpfulness and counsel in
                  their efforts to rectify wrong, alleviate suffering, and set the weak in the way of
                  strength and hope. <span class="democracy">We have built up, moreover, a great system of government,
                     which has stood through a long age as in many respects a model for those who seek
                     to
                     set liberty upon foundations that will endure against fortuitous change, against
                     storm and accident. Our life contains every great thing, and contains it in rich
                     abundance.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>But the evil has come with the good, and much fine gold has been corroded. With
                  riches has come inexcusable waste. We have squandered a great part of what we might
                  have
                  used, and have not stopped to conserve the exceeding bounty of nature, without which
                  our
                  genius for enterprise would have been worthless and impotent, scorning to be careful,
                  shamefully prodigal as well as admirably efficient. <span class="infrastructure">We have been proud
                     of our industrial achievements, but we have not hitherto stopped thoughtfully enough
                     to count the human cost, the cost of lives snuffed out, of energies overtaxed and
                     broken, the fearful physical and spiritual cost to the men and women and children
                     upon whom the dead weight and burden of it all has fallen pitilessly the years
                     through. The groans and agony of it all had not yet reached our ears, the solemn,
                     moving undertone of our life, coming up out of the mines and factories, and out of
                     every home where the struggle had its intimate and familiar seat.</span>
                  With the great Government went many deep secret things which we too long delayed to
                  look
                  into and scrutinize with candid, fearless eyes. <span class="democracy">The great Government we loved
                     has too often been made use of for private and selfish purposes, and those who used
                     it had forgotten the people.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">At last a vision has been vouchsafed us of our life as a whole.
                     We see the bad with the good, the debased and decadent with the sound and vital.
                     With this vision we approach new affairs. Our duty is to cleanse, to reconsider, to
                     restore, to correct the evil without impairing the good, to purify and humanize
                     every process of our common life without weakening or sentimentalizing it. There has
                     been something crude and heartless and unfeeling in our haste to succeed and be
                     great. Our thought has been "Let every man look out for himself, let every
                     generation look out for itself," while we reared giant machinery which made it
                     impossible that any but those who stood at the levers of control should have a
                     chance to look out for themselves. We had not forgotten our morals. We remembered
                     well enough that we had set up a policy which was meant to serve the humblest as
                     well as the most powerful, with an eye single to the standards of justice and fair
                     play, and remembered it with pride. But we were very heedless and in a hurry to be
                     great.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We have come now to the sober second thought. The scales of
                     heedlessness have fallen from our eyes. We have made up our minds to square every
                     process of our national life again with the standards we so proudly set up at the
                     beginning and have always carried at our hearts. Our work is a work of
                     restoration.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>We have itemized with some degree of particularity the things that ought to be
                  altered and here are some of the chief items: <span class="trade">A tariff which cuts us off from our
                     proper part in the commerce of the world, violates the just principles of taxation,
                     and makes the Government a facile instrument in the hand of private
                     interests</span>; <span class="economy-N">a banking and currency system based upon the
                     necessity of the Government to sell its bonds fifty years ago and perfectly adapted
                     to concentrating cash and restricting credits; an industrial system which, take it
                     on all its sides, financial as well as administrative, holds capital in leading
                     strings, restricts the liberties and limits the opportunities of labor, and exploits
                     without renewing or conserving the natural resources of the country; a body of
                     agricultural activities never yet given the efficiency of great business
                     undertakings or served as it should be through the instrumentality of science taken
                     directly to the farm, or afforded the facilities of credit best suited to its
                     practical needs; watercourses undeveloped, waste places unreclaimed, forests
                     untended, fast disappearing without plan or prospect of renewal, unregarded waste
                     heaps at every mine. We have studied as perhaps no other nation has the most
                     effective means of production, but we have not studied cost or economy as we should
                     either as organizers of industry, as statesmen, or as
                     individuals.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="public_health-N">Nor have we studied and perfected the means by which
                     government may be put at the service of humanity, in safeguarding the health of the
                     Nation, the health of its men and its women and its children, as well as their
                     rights in the struggle for existence.</span> This is no sentimental duty.
                  The firm basis of government is justice, not pity. These are matters of justice. There
                  can be no equality or opportunity, the first essential of justice in the body politic,
                  if men and women and children be not shielded in their lives, their very vitality,
                  from
                  the consequences of great industrial and social processes which they can not alter,
                  control, or singly cope with. Society must see to it that it does not itself crush
                  or
                  weaken or damage its own constituent parts. The first duty of law is to keep sound
                  the
                  society it serves. <span class="regulation">Sanitary laws, pure food laws, and laws determining
                     conditions of labor which individuals are powerless to determine for themselves are
                     intimate parts of the very business of justice and legal
                     efficiency.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>These are some of the things we ought to do, and not leave the others undone, the
                  old-fashioned, never-to-be-neglected, fundamental safeguarding of property and of
                  individual right. <span class="unity-P">This is the high enterprise of the new day: To lift everything that
                     concerns our life as a Nation to the light that shines from the hearthfire of every
                     man's conscience and vision of the right. It is inconceivable that we should do this
                     as
                     partisans; it is inconceivable we should do it in ignorance of the facts as they are
                     or
                     in blind haste. We shall restore, not destroy.</span> <span class="economy-P">We shall deal with our
                     economic system as it is and as it may be modified, not as it might be if we had a
                     clean sheet of paper to write upon; and step by step we shall make it what it should
                     be, in the spirit of those who question their own wisdom and seek counsel and
                     knowledge, not shallow self-satisfaction or the excitement of excursions whither
                     they can not tell.</span> Justice, and only justice, shall always be our
                  motto.</p>
               
               
               <p>And yet it will be no cool process of mere science. <span class="unity-N">The Nation
                     has been deeply stirred, stirred by a solemn passion, stirred by the knowledge of
                     wrong, of ideals lost, of government too often debauched and made an instrument of
                     evil.</span> The feelings with which we face this new age of right and opportunity
                  sweep across our heartstrings like some air out of God's own presence, where justice
                  and
                  mercy are reconciled and the judge and the brother are one. We know our task to be
                  no
                  mere task of politics but a task which shall search us through and through, whether
                  we
                  be able to understand our time and the need of our people, whether we be indeed their
                  spokesmen and interpreters, whether we have the pure heart to comprehend and the
                  rectified will to choose our high course of action.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">This is not a day of triumph; it is a day of dedication. Here
                     muster, not the forces of party, but the forces of humanity. Men's hearts wait upon
                     us; men's lives hang in the balance; men's hopes call upon us to say what we will
                     do. Who shall live up to the great trust? Who dares fail to try? I summon all honest
                     men, all patriotic, all forward-looking men, to my side. God helping me, I will not
                     fail them, if they will but counsel and sustain me!</span></p>
               </div>
            <button type="button" class="collapsible">Second Inaugural Address: Monday, 
               March 5, 1917
            </button>
            <div class="content">
               
               <p>My Fellow Citizens:
                  <span class="regulation">THE four years which have elapsed since last I stood in this place have been
                     crowded with counsel and action of the most vital interest and consequence. Perhaps
                     no
                     equal period in our history has been so fruitful of important reforms in our economic
                     and industrial life or so full of significant changes in the spirit and purpose of
                     our
                     political action. We have sought very thoughtfully to set our house in order, correct
                     the grosser errors and abuses of our industrial life, liberate and quicken the processes
                     of our national genius and energy, and lift our politics to a broader view of the
                     people's essential interests.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="regulation">It is a record of singular variety and singular distinction. But I shall not
                  attempt to review it. It speaks for itself and will be of increasing influence as
                  the
                  years go by.</span> This is not the time for retrospect. It is time rather to speak our
                  thoughts and purposes concerning the present and the immediate future.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">Although we have centered counsel and action with such unusual concentration and
                  success upon the great problems of domestic legislation to which we addressed ourselves
                  four years ago, other matters have more and more forced themselves upon our
                  attention—matters lying outside our own life as a nation and over which we had no
                  control, but which, despite our wish to keep free of them, have drawn us more and
                  more
                  irresistibly into their own current and influence.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-P">It has been impossible to avoid them. They have affected the life of the whole
                  world. They have shaken men everywhere with a passion and an apprehension they never
                  knew before. It has been hard to preserve calm counsel while the thought of our own
                  people swayed this way and that under their influence. We are a composite and
                  cosmopolitan people. We are of the blood of all the nations that are at war. The
                  currents of our thoughts as well as the currents of our trade run quick at all seasons
                  back and forth between us and them. The war inevitably set its mark from the first
                  alike
                  upon our minds, our industries, our commerce, our politics and our social action.
                  To be
                  indifferent to it, or independent of it, was out of the question.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">And yet all the while we have been conscious that we were not part of it. In that
                  consciousness, despite many divisions, we have drawn closer together. We have been
                  deeply wronged upon the seas, but we have not wished to wrong or injure in return;
                  have
                  retained throughout the consciousness of standing in some sort apart, intent upon
                  an
                  interest that transcended the immediate issues of the war itself.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">As some of the injuries done us have become intolerable we have still been clear
                  that we wished nothing for ourselves that we were not ready to demand for all
                  mankind—fair dealing, justice, the freedom to live and to be at ease against organized
                  wrong.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">It is in this spirit and with this thought that we have grown more and more
                  aware, more and more certain that the part we wished to play was the part of those
                  who
                  mean to vindicate and fortify peace.</span> <span class="war-P">We have been obliged to arm ourselves to make good
                     our claim to a certain minimum of right and of freedom of action. We stand firm in
                     armed
                     neutrality since it seems that in no other way we can demonstrate what it is we insist
                     upon and cannot forget. We may even be drawn on, by circumstances, not by our own
                     purpose or desire, to a more active assertion of our rights as we see them and a more
                     immediate association with the great struggle itself. But nothing will alter our thought
                     or our purpose. They are too clear to be obscured. They are too deeply rooted in the
                     principles of our national life to be altered. We desire neither conquest nor advantage.
                     We wish nothing that can be had only at the cost of another people. We always professed
                     unselfish purpose and we covet the opportunity to prove our professions are
                     sincere.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">There are many things still to be done at home, to clarify our own politics and
                  add new vitality to the industrial processes of our own life, and we shall do them
                  as
                  time and opportunity serve, but we realize that the greatest things that remain to
                  be
                  done must be done with the whole world for stage and in cooperation with the wide
                  and
                  universal forces of mankind, and we are making our spirits ready for those
                  things.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="diplomacy">We are provincials no longer. The tragic events of the thirty months of vital
                  turmoil through which we have just passed have made us citizens of the world. There
                  can
                  be no turning back. Our own fortunes as a nation are involved whether we would have
                  it
                  so or not.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">And yet we are not the less Americans on that account. We shall be the more
                  American if we but remain true to the principles in which we have been bred. They
                  are
                  not the principles of a province or of a single continent. We have known and boasted
                  all
                  along that they were the principles of a liberated mankind. These, therefore, are
                  the
                  things we shall stand for, whether in war or in peace:</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="war-N">That all nations are equally interested in the peace of the world and in the
                  political stability of free peoples, and equally responsible for their maintenance;
                  that
                  the essential principle of peace is the actual equality of nations in all matters
                  of
                  right or privilege; that peace cannot securely or justly rest upon an armed balance
                  of
                  power;</span> <span class="democracy">that governments derive all their just powers from the consent of the governed</span>
                  and that no other powers should be supported by the common thought, purpose or power
                  of
                  the family of nations; that the seas should be equally free and safe for the use of
                  all
                  peoples, under rules set up by common agreement and consent, and that, so far as
                  practicable, they should be accessible to all upon equal terms; <span class="war-N">that national armaments
                     shall be limited to the necessities of national order and domestic safety; that the
                     community of interest and of power upon which peace must henceforth depend imposes
                     upon
                     each nation the duty of seeing to it that all influences proceeding from its own
                     citizens meant to encourage or assist revolution in other states should be sternly
                     and
                     effectually suppressed and prevented.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">I need not argue these principles to you, my fellow countrymen; they are your own
                  part and parcel of your own thinking and your own motives in affairs. They spring
                  up
                  native amongst us. Upon this as a platform of purpose and of action we can stand
                  together. And it is imperative that we should stand together. We are being forged
                  into a
                  new unity amidst the fires that now blaze throughout the world. In their ardent heat
                  we
                  shall, in God's Providence, let us hope, be purged of faction and division, purified
                  of
                  the errant humors of party and of private interest, and shall stand forth in the days
                  to
                  come with a new dignity of national pride and spirit. Let each man see to it that
                  the
                  dedication is in his own heart, the high purpose of the nation in his own mind, ruler
                  of
                  his own will and desire.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="democracy">I stand here and have taken the high and solemn oath to which you have been
                  audience because the people of the United States have chosen me for this august
                  delegation of power and have by their gracious judgment named me their leader in
                  affairs.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>I know now what the task means. I realize to the full the responsibility which it
                  involves. <span class="religion">I pray God I may be given the wisdom and the prudence to do my duty in the
                     true spirit of this great people. I am their servant and can succeed only as they
                     sustain and guide me by their confidence and their counsel.</span> <span class="unity-P">The thing I shall count
                        upon, the thing without which neither counsel nor action will avail, is the unity
                        of
                        America—an America united in feeling, in purpose and in its vision of duty, of
                        opportunity and of service.</span></p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-N">We are to beware of all men who would turn the tasks and the necessities of the
                  nation to their own private profit or use them for the building up of private
                  power.</span></p>
               
               
               <p>United alike in the conception of our duty and in the high resolve to perform it
                  in the face of all men, let us dedicate ourselves to the great task to which we must
                  now
                  set our hand. For myself I beg your tolerance, your countenance and your united
                  aid.</p>
               
               
               <p><span class="unity-P">The shadows that now lie dark upon our path will soon be dispelled, and we shall
                  walk with the light all about us if we be but true to ourselves—to ourselves as we
                  have
                  wished to be known in the counsels of the world and in the thought of all those who
                  love
                  liberty and justice and the right exalted.</span></p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="flex-container" id="js">
            <h4>Themes:</h4>
            <ul>
               <li><b>Unity</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-P" name="unityP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="unity-N" name="unityN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Economy</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-P" name="economyP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="economy-N" name="economyN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>War</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-P" name="warP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="war-N" name="warN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Jobs</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-P" name="jobsP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="jobs-N" name="jobsN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Immigration</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-P" name="immigrationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="immigration-N" name="immigrationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Education</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-P" name="educationP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="education-N" name="educationN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Predecessor</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-P" name="predP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="pred-N" name="predN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Criminal Justice</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-P" name="criminal_justiceP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="criminal_justice-N" name="criminal_justiceN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li><b>Public Health</b><ul>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-P" name="public_healthP"/>Positive<br/></li>
                     <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="public_health-N" name="public_healthN"/>Negative<br/></li>
                  </ul>
               </li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="religion" name="religion"/><b>Religion</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="race" name="race"/><b>Race</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="infrastructure" name="infrastructure"/><b>Infrastructure</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="regulation" name="regulation"/><b>Regulation</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="trade" name="trade"/><b>Trade</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="congress" name="congress"/><b>Congress</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="diplomacy" name="diplomacy"/><b>Diplomacy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="democracy" name="democracy"/><b>Democracy</b><br/></li>
               <li class="buttons"><input type="checkbox" id="tax" name="tax"/><b>Tax</b><br/></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </div>
      
      <div id="buttons">
         <ul class="textButtons">
            <li><a href="taft_1.xhtml">William Taft</a></li>
            <li><a href="harding_1.xhtml">Warren Harding</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>